“ My son, a terrible darkness has returned to our world. As before, it seeks to annihilate everything that we hold dear. I go to face it, knowing I may not return. All my life I have lived by the sword. I've seen kingdoms burn, and watched brave heroes die in vain. It's been difficult for me to trust after losing so much. But from you I have learned patience, tolerance, and faith. Anduin, I now believe as you do, that peace is the noblest aspiration. But to preserve it, you must be willing to fight!”

— Varian's last message to Anduin

Varian Wrynn was a human warrior, the scion of the Wild God Goldrinn, the King of Stormwind "Stormwind (kingdom)"), and the High King of the Grand Alliance.

As heir of the House of Wrynn, Varian saw his father King Llane assassinated by Garona Halforcen, as well as Stormwind City sacked by the Orcish Horde during the First War. After his guardian Anduin Lothar gathered the survivors and sailed to Lordaeron, where the Alliance of Lordaeron was formed to defeat the orcs in the Second War, Stormwind was reclaimed, though at the cost of Lothar's life. With the support of King Terenas Menethil II of Lordaeron, Varian was crowned King of Stormwind and remained loyal to the Alliance of Lordaeron, even when it began to fracture due to politic conflicts between the Seven Kingdoms. However, Stormwind soon faced its own internal problems, as Varian was unable to reach a settlement between the Stonemasons who rebuilt Stormwind and the House of Nobles, leading to a riot in which his wife Queen Tiffin was killed. While on a diplomatic mission to Theramore, Varian was abducted by the Defias Brotherhood and went missing for years while his son, Anduin Wrynn, succeeded him on the throne.

Unbeknownst to his people, Varian had managed to escape from the Defias but was suffering from memory loss, and was soon enslaved to become a gladiator in the Crimson Ring. Alongside his teammates Broll Bearmantle and Valeera Sanguinar, Varian won the Crimson Ring tournament in Dire Maul, for which he was given the Taur-ahe moniker "Lo'Gosh" — meaning "Ghost Wolf". After escaping his slavers, Varian discovered he was the missing King of Stormwind and that his advisor, Lady Katrana Prestor, was the black dragon Onyxia in disguise. She had manipulated the Defias and nobles dispute, was behind Varian's kidnapping and had created a duplicate of him using dark magic. With the help of his comrades, he was able to recover his true identity and finally defeat Onyxia.

Under his daring leadership, the humans of Stormwind led the Alliance to victory against the Lich King in Northrend. After the death of Highlord Bolvar Fordragon and Alliance forces at the Wrathgate, Varian declared war on the Horde and sought to bolster their strategic holdings against their perennial enemy. Known for his tenacity and fierce will, King Varian Wrynn was committed to protecting the Alliance's interests and raising his son Anduin to follow in his place. With the world plunged into chaos by the great Cataclysm "Cataclysm (event)"), he earned the respect of the night elves, dwarves, and other Alliance races and took up military leadership of the Alliance as High King, vowing to forge a new destiny for Azeroth. The war with the Horde was finally brought to an end following the victory in the Siege of Orgrimmar.

Leading the Alliance armies against the Burning Legion at the Broken Shore, Varian fell in battle at the gates of the Tomb of Sargeras, sacrificing himself to allow the Alliance forces to escape. Before staying behind to fight, Varian entrusted Genn Greymane with a letter to his son Anduin, advising him that one must be willing to fight in order to preserve peace. In the aftermath of the battle, he was succeeded by Anduin as King of Stormwind and High King of the Alliance.

Varian served as one of the main protagonists in the Warcraft franchise.
Biography
First War and exodus



Enlarge

Young Varian in the burning streets of Stormwind.

Varian Wrynn was born to King Llane Wrynn by Queen Taria Wrynn in Stormwind City ten years before the First War and as a youth lived a joyful and prosperous life as prince of the Kingdom of Stormwind "Stormwind (kingdom)"). He would train in horse riding and learning how to fight. But all that changed when the orcs appeared from beyond the Dark Portal and attempted to destroy his homeland, thus ushering in the First War between his beloved Kingdom of Azeroth and the Horde.

Anduin Lothar, the Champion of Stormwind, rallied his countrymen and armies and gutted out a desperate attempt to hold the Horde at bay and to keep them away from King Llane, Prince Varian, and Stormwind. While Lothar enjoyed some small success in holding back the Horde, his efforts were dashed when Garona Halforcen, who had become an ally to Stormwind, betrayed King Llane under orders from the Shadow Council in the year 3. Varian could only watch helplessly as his father was murdered and the Horde overran his kingdom, burning its homes and slaughtering all who stood in their way. The death of his father affected Varian greatly; Garona's actions forever tainted the prince's perception of the orcs, and he would view them as a deceitful and murderous people. His later closest friend Arthas Menethil recalled him looking weary and ragged when he first saw him and said that he'd "lost absolutely everything but his life."

Anduin Lothar, convinced that Stormwind could not be retaken, gathered Varian, Queen Taria, and all who remained in the city and led an escape from their homeland. While they narrowly escaped by boat into the sea, the Queen and many others were lost in the fighting to reach the harbor. They headed North while Lothar gathered his thoughts aboard his ship. Consulting with Varian and the Kirin Tor mage Khadgar, they determined that in order to preserve humanity from annihilation by the Horde they would need to warn King Terenas Menethil II, ruler of Lordaeron "Lordaeron (kingdom)"), of the danger that loomed on the horizon.

After landing at the port of Southshore, Lothar gathered Prince Varian along with Khadgar and several knights and marched towards Lordaeron. Upon arriving, young Varian was greeted by King Terenas, who treated him as an equal king despite Varian's young age. King Terenas quickly offered him his pledge to stand by him until his homeland was retaken and invited him to stay with him for as long as he was willing. Although at first Varian was slightly shy being in a Kingdom he had never seen before, he quickly overcame his timidity, and Varian found King Terenas' son Arthas Menethil, who was just a few years younger than he, as a great new friend, and the two quickly formed a close friendship. Shortly after the people of Stormwind reached Lordaeron, King Terenas — at Lothar's urging — gathered all the leaders of the other human kingdoms together at the Council of Seven Nations.

When the leaders at the council grew divided as Genn Greymane of Gilneas "Gilneas (kingdom)") and Aiden Perenolde of Alterac "Alterac (kingdom)") threatened to abandon the council out of fear of losing their regional power to unity, the venerated priest Turalyon brought Varian to his side and called upon the kings to cease quarreling over meaningless issues. If they did not, he announced, then every kingdom would be destroyed and every city would be burned as Stormwind had been, and their children would be orphaned like Varian if they even survived at all. Turalyon argued that if humanity failed to unite they would be remembered as a people that could've saved Azeroth but were too proud to put aside political ambitions, yet if humanity did form an alliance, they could change history and become the guardians of Azeroth. These words saw the Council of Seven Nations erupt into applause, even from Greymane and Perenolde, and resulted in a unanimous vote to form the Alliance of Lordaeron.

Under the command of Anduin Lothar, its supreme commander, this alliance was finally able to put an end to the Horde's reign during the Second War. However, the victory came at a great price as Anduin Lothar was killed shortly before the war ended and would not live to see the retaking of his Kingdom of Stormwind.

After taking up shelter in Lordaeron, Varian quickly became friends with Arthas Menethil who was anxious to meet another young prince. Though most of the time he kept his composure, Varian once broke into tears as Arthas tried to console him about the assassination of his father. He was later recalled by Arthas as his "best friend" for much of their childhood and adult lives, and Varian frequently sparred with the less-athletic Arthas in an attempt to toughen him and make him a better paladin. They built up a friendly rivalry. Many years later, Varian attended Arthas' ascension to the Order of the Silver Hand and sparred with him. Though not outwardly spiteful, Arthas frequently lamented that he was not as physically strong as Varian. During the later murder of King Terenas, Arthas recalled words that Varian once said about how King Llane was "stabbed right through the heart" moments before he plunged Frostmourne through his own father's heart. After Arthas' falling in with the Scourge and rise to become the new Lich King, Varian began to see him as the ultimate traitor to the Alliance.
Rise as king



Enlarge

The young King Varian on the throne.

With Stormwind retaken and slowly being rebuilt, thanks to the help of King Terenas, who had urged the Alliance to help fund the rebuilding of Stormwind, Varian was officially crowned King of Stormwind by the age of eighteen. King Terenas himself was well-pleased with how Varian had grown into a clever and noble king, feeling a father's pride as he had grown attached to Varian over the years, considering Varian almost his second son. Varian was provided with experienced ministers and advisors by High General Turalyon to help secure his place as king. Turalyon also oversaw the repatriation of the citizens of Stormwind. The Stonemasons, led by Edwin VanCleef, came to lend their help in rebuilding Stormwind and hoped to forge a new future for themselves, with aspirations that riches would soon follow their work's completion. Varian was present at Nethergarde Keep along with the other Alliance kings when Khadgar proposed rallying the Alliance army that would undertake the Invasion of Draenor.



Enlarge

King Varian along with his wife, Queen Tiffin, and his newborn son, Prince Anduin.

During his reign as king, Varian left Stormwind City under the stewardship of the House of Nobles and rode to the many corners of his kingdom to protect his people from raiding orc parties, meet with spies who were searching for the assassin Garona, and direct the restoration of his kingdom. After many months, Stormwind was finished, reborn as a kingdom of majesty and architectural brilliance, eclipsing even its once-pristine condition before the First War. It was during this time of renewed tranquility in Year 15 that Varian married a young, beautiful woman named Tiffin Ellerian and conceived a son, Anduin, named for Lothar.

However, the Alliance soon began fracturing, and the elven kingdom of Quel'Thalas "Quel'Thalas (kingdom)"), along with the human kingdoms of Stromgarde "Stromgarde (kingdom)") and Gilneas "Gilneas (kingdom)") seceded. Despite this, King Varian vowed he would stand by King Terenas and the Alliance as they had stood by him in his time of need. It was also during this time that the Stonemasons who had rebuilt Stormwind demanded to be paid for their service to King Varian and the House of Nobles. However, the corrupt House of Nobles, under the influence of Katrana Prestor, refused to adequately pay the guild for its work. King Varian was unable to negotiate a resolution that appeased both parties. It is suspected that Lady Katrana had ensorcelled half the House of Nobles and half the Stonemasons and because of this, both sides refused to begrudge their positions: with the House of Nobles only offering meager compensation while the Stonemasons continued to demand extravagant sums. However, even Varian does not doubt that some Stormwind nobles were just irredeemably corrupt.

SI:7 notes that the nobles of Stormwind ran up a huge debt by expanding the kingdom's military presence through Elwynn and into Stranglethorn. The massive debt crippled the kingdom's economy and stripped Edwin VanCleef and his Stonemasons of their promised rewards. Edwin VanCleef and the Stonemasons set to rioting in the streets of Stormwind, demanding just compensation. The riot was dangerous and chaotic and in the confusion Varian's young queen was accidentally killed when a large rock hit her upside the head. Varian vowed to punish those responsible and dealt with the rioters more severely. The Stonemasons, fleeing the city, hid in the rural areas of Westfall to escape prosecution. Knowing Varian's anger would never fade, many were forced to remain in hiding. VanCleef fled Stormwind with the Stonemasons, while Varian mourned Tiffin's death. He subsequently fell into a great depression that was ensorcelled to span a decade; all throughout the duration of the Third War. During which, Lady Katrana took advantage of his ensorcelled state to politically outmaneuver him but over time, he fought off the magical effects and regained his consciousness and will. Varian soon reasserted his control over the Stormwind government and vowed to create a new and better world for himself, his son, and the people of Stormwind. At one point, Varian did battle with an assassin who had snuck into Stormwind Keep and nearly stabbed Anduin.

Before the Third War, he was using the SI:7's elite, Reigol Valdread, to spy on the kingdom of Lordaeron "Lordaeron (kingdom)"). Varian bestowed him the title of baron, but Reigol continued to serve him in missions. At the start of the Third War, Varian wondered whether Reigol would finally retire, but the rogue returned to Lordaeron to investigate the plague of undeath.
Abduction



Enlarge

Varian captured by the Defias Brotherhood.

After the dust had settled from the Third War, Varian journeyed to Theramore to speak with Lady Jaina Proudmoore regarding Horde/ Alliance relations. En route, he was abducted by the Defias, who had been told of his diplomatic trip through a spy rumored to live within the Kingdom of Stormwind itself. Rumors circulated that he was taken to Alcaz Island and was held captive there. The Defias had previously attempted to abduct him in the tunnels between Stormwind and Ironforge, but Varian foiled them with a decoy.

While trapped on Alcaz Island, Varian would eventually be tied to the ground as cloaked figures began dark magic, causing him unbearable pain as he desperately tried to break himself free. In a blinding flash of light, he would awaken to find himself laying next to an exact duplicate. Onyxia unmasked herself intending to kill the strong-willed Varian but is stopped by the arrival of Morgala Darksquall and her naga. The cloaked figures and Onyxia turn into dragonkin and battle the naga while the strong-willed Varian breaks himself free and begins to fight. He tried to free the other Varian and implores him to find a weapon but discovered his other is too unnerved to properly wield a weapon.

The other Varian is knocked off a cliff, falls into the ocean and is captured by the naga. Varian is left alone to fight and tricks Onyxia into believing she had killed him. Pleased, Onyxia left before more naga appeared. Morgala attempted to capture Varian but he fled to another side of the island and jumped into the ocean, knowing he wouldn't be followed as that part of the ocean contained many rocky shoals. His escape failed, however, as the strong tide overpowered him and he was swept away to the shores of Durotar.

After King Varian Wrynn went missing under suspicious circumstances while en route to a diplomatic summit to Theramore Isle, Stormwind was believed to be going through a state of disarray. Young Anduin was given the crown so that order could be preserved within the kingdom of Stormwind, at the behest of the royal councilor, Lady Prestor. Highlord Bolvar Fordragon acted as a kind of Regent of Stormwind or the Supreme Commander of Stormwind's forces on behalf of King Anduin, with Lady Prestor advising Bolvar on the proper use of Stormwind's resources.
Gladiator

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft manga or comics.



Enlarge

Lo'Gosh standing victorious over Two-Heads' body.

Half-drowned and suffering from memory loss, he was found washed up on the shores of Durotar by a caravan of orcs led by the gladiator trainer Rehgar Earthfury. After successfully fighting off an enormous crocolisk using only a stick, he was captured and enslaved as a gladiator by the impressed shaman. Unaware of the human's true identity, Earthfury humorously nicknamed his new slave "Croc-Bait" and threw him into a cage with his other two gladiator slaves: Broll Bearmantle and Valeera Sanguinar. That night, in order to help him remember his past, Broll placed Varian in a trance, wherein he saw a vision of himself as a child in a burning city.

After arriving in Orgrimmar, Rehgar started training his team. Rehgar taught the three gladiators new ways to kill as well as strategy in single and team combat. While in the Ring of Valor \- the Crimson Ring's secret training grounds - Varian refused to engage in combat for the amusement of the orcs. Though the orcs in the training grounds labeled him a troublemaker, Rehgar permitted his disobedience and allowed him to watch as his partners trained. It was only when Valeera was drawn into a fight with Sparkeye's gladiator team that Varian picked up a sword to defend his team mates. Though Varian's team emerged victorious from the battle, they were left injured and exhausted from their fight. Rehgar offered no respite as he permitted Hyku Steeledge to take advantage of their weakened state and attack them. With both his teammates defenseless, Varian engaged Hyku Steeledge in single combat and slew him. From that battle, Varian learned to always expect the unexpected in the Crimson Ring and following the rules of combat, inherited Hyku's twin orc blades.

Rehgar later led the trio to the secret armory of the Crimson Ring in the Hall of Legends, where after seeing a familiar-looking lion-headed plate belt, Varian received another flashback: a bald, bearded man stands on the deck of a boat in a storm, wearing the belt and called Varian "lad".

Eventually, the three traveled to Dire Maul in Feralas, where the gladiatorial contests took place. After many bloody battles, they emerged as the victors of the Crimson Ring tournament. Impressed by Varian's skill at arms, the crowd gave him the Taur-ahe moniker "Lo'Gosh" — which means "Ghost Wolf".

After the tournament, Rehgar took Lo'Gosh and Broll to the tauren city Thunder Bluff, where they were both permitted to undergo a cleansing ritual in the Pools of Vision that would reveal more about the gladiators' pasts and guide them to their futures. In the waters of the pools, Lo'Gosh saw another vision: a fair-haired female who was ostensibly his wife holding an infant boy, telling him that his people and his son need him. Unfortunately, his vision was interrupted by a cave elemental that had been haunting the pools of vision, a foe which he subsequently defeated. Nevertheless, having learned more of his past, he planned to escape from Rehgar at the next possible opportunity.

.jpg)

Enlarge.jpg "Enlarge")

Varian and Broll escaping Thunder Bluff.

In thanks for defeating the cave elemental, Broll and Lo'Gosh were invited to the tent of Hamuul Runetotem, elder druid of the tauren. He told Varian the legend of the original Lo'Gosh — a massive, white wolf-beast renowned for its ferocity in battle, already 10,000 years old when the Burning Legion first invaded Azeroth. According to the arch druid, the wolf's legend extended through Azeroth to trolls, goblins, and dwarves who all had their own version of the story. In each tale, Lo'Gosh's unyielding will and sheer ferocity enabled him to push through the boundaries of the afterlife to aid his people. Hamuul then gave Lo'Gosh a feather, which Broll immediately recognized as belonging to a hippogryph. The night elf used it to call Sharptalon from Ashenvale, and immediately made a bid for freedom with Lo'Gosh.

Broll and Lo'Gosh later went on more heroic exploits: they've helped the Silverwing Sentinels defeat the Warsong Outriders at Warsong Gulch and recovered the missing Idol of Remulos. Eventually, they journeyed to the Cenarion Enclave in Darnassus, where after they've relinquished the Idol of Remulos to Archdruid Fandral Staghelm, they were summoned to dinner by Tyrande Whisperwind. Tyrande, who after hearing of the two friends' feats and current predicament, sent the two to Theramore. There, she hoped Jaina Proudmoore would be able to help restore Lo'Gosh's memories.

Upon arriving in Theramore, Jaina vowed to Lo'Gosh that she would unravel the mystery surrounding him and called upon her chamberlain, Aegwynn, to help. Breaching the dark aura surrounding Lo'Gosh's memories, visions revealed a fire and a voyage, the birth of his son, the death of his wife, and new darkness. Despite an invisible wall preventing Jaina and Aegwynn from further delving into his memories, they were able to confirm that he had been traveling to Theramore and that he was, in fact, Varian Wrynn, the lost King of Stormwind.

Clearly having been the victim of a dark magic attack, Jaina prepared one of her own ships to carry Lo'Gosh to Stormwind in the Eastern Kingdoms, where she hoped that he could learn the identity of his enemies. Now knowing that his wife is dead, Lo'Gosh was eager to return to Stormwind and reunite with his son, though Aegwynn advised him that circumspection was necessary, as Anduin could be endangered by any hasty actions. On the docks, Broll and Lo'Gosh reunited with Valeera and prepared to set out for Stormwind.
Revelations

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft manga or comics.



Enlarge

Lo'Gosh involved in a bar brawl.

While Lo'Gosh, Broll, and Valeera were traveling on the Wavecutter — Jaina Proudmoore's private vessel — Lo'Gosh contemplated the revelations Jaina had told him. Despite being revealed as one of the rulers of the Alliance, he became unsure if he truly wanted to resume being "Varian Wrynn" — if he had a choice, he would remain as "Lo'Gosh", a simple gladiator. Doubts began to fill Lo'Gosh's head as they traveled to Menethil Harbor.

During the voyage, their vessel was attacked by naga led by Morgala Darksquall. The fight between Lo'Gosh and the siren was brutal and during the bout a flash of lightning from the naga's blade left his notable crossed facial scars. Lo'Gosh also had another glimpse into his lost memory — remembering the Defias abducting him on his diplomatic mission to Theramore, the naga attacking him on Alcaz Island for ransom, the funeral for his beloved wife Tiffin, and the day he was crowned King of Stormwind. Almost all of Lo'Gosh's memory had been returned, except some vital parts of his abduction. Varian then declared himself to be the King of Stormwind and that no one would keep him from his people before cutting Morgala in half.

Meanwhile, in Stormwind, jubilant throngs of Stormwind's subjects turned out for a massive ceremony to welcome home their king. However, the Varian that returned was arrogant, frivolous, and markedly interested in Katrana Prestor. The people of Stormwind had only been informed that the Defias had ransomed the king, but in truth, he was somehow imprisoned and ransomed back by some naga. In either case, his freedom was bought and paid for by a special tax. Upon his return, however, Varian seemed concerned only with spending more of his people's money, leaving affairs of state by the wayside. Anduin Wrynn was distressed by his father's change.

Around the same time, Lo'Gosh appeared at Menethil Harbor with Broll and Valeera. The group had a chance encounter with a drunkard in Menethil Harbor, who ran after realizing that Varian was still alive. Lo'Gosh and his companions gave chase with the intent of interrogating the man. The man ran to a bar filled with Defias members, who attempted to take out Varian again, resulting in a chaotic bar brawl. During the fight, Lo'Gosh met Thargas Anvilmar: an emissary from Magni Bronzebeard and brother of Hjalmar, whom Varian had trained under.

Though the drunk escaped, Lo'Gosh found a dying Defias mage to question. Though the mage did not reveal who wanted Varian dead, the mage did say that their employer had paid in Stormwind gold. In his final moments, the mage taunted Lo'Gosh by claiming that his son would be murdered. The three gladiators and Thargas then continued on their way to Ironforge; a perilous journey beset by dangerous assassins and violent encounters with Dark Iron dwarves. Lo'Gosh and his entourage went on the become instrumental in the reclaiming of the Thandol Span Bridges which were being occupied by Dark Iron forces, although at the cost of Hjalmar's life. As fate would have it, their heroics at Thandol Span would lead them to encounter King Magni Bronzebeard, the dwarven king of Ironforge.

While Lo'Gosh departed from Menethil Harbor, King Magni Bronzebeard was on a visit in Stormwind City and was discussing war plans against the orcs and Dark Iron dwarves with King "Varian" and Bolvar Fordragon. However, Varian Wrynn was counseled by Lady Katrana Prestor to not send troops to help the dwarves fight against the Dark Irons. King Magni left disappointed in Varian's subservience to Lady Prestor's wishes and his dishonorable demeanor. While going to the Deeprun Tram to prepare his dwarven forces for the retaking of Thandol Span, Magni was met by the young Prince Anduin Wrynn who told the dwarven king that he too suspected something was amiss about his "father".



Enlarge

Lo'Gosh evading several fire elementals during his infiltration within Blackrock Depths.

Some time later, Anduin was practicing his archery with his "father" and he inquired Varian how he was kidnapped by the Defias. Anduin further questioned him how he later came into the hands of the naga for ransom, to which his father told him his past was a blank, and he could not recall any events before his rescue. For his improvement in his archery, Varian granted Anduin one reward. Anduin requested that the details of Varian's disappearance be further investigated.

Upon arriving at Ironforge, Lo'Gosh was informed by King Magni that much of what had transpired was no coincidence and that someone was secretly orchestrating the events, knowing of King Varian's significant importance to the Alliance. Magni had previously enlisted the aid of Highlord Bolvar Fordragon and Marshal Windsor at the behest of young Anduin, who suspected the Varian in Stormwind to be an impostor. Varian, having studied sword fighting with Windsor for years, held a deep respect for him as a friend and ally. A disturbingly short time after Marshal Windsor began his investigation, he had come to the conclusion that the impostor Varian may not only be an impostor, but a dragon.

As Lo'Gosh and Magni continued to converse, they were secretly being followed by a bearded man. Valeera sensed arcane energy being manipulated and witnessed the man creating a dagger with the intent to kill Lo'Gosh. Valeera quickly subdued the man, but he transformed into a black dragon and fled.

Outside Stormwind, Anduin, Varian, Bolvar, and Lady Prestor were riding horseback through the countryside with Anduin trying to implore his father to listen to Stormwind's problems, but before he could elaborate, his horse was purposely roused by an unknown assailant, causing Anduin to lose control and tumble over a ledge. Varian swiftly caught Anduin, and upon making physical contact, his mind is enveloped with visions of the Defias carrying him while knocked out, strapped to the ground and covered in a rune-circle with robed figures casting dark magic, being chased on Alcaz Island by naga, and finally jumping over a cliff reaching for branches just beyond his reach.

Anduin, embracing his father, lost any doubts about him being an imposter. Varian started to tell Bolvar, Anduin, and Lady Prestor about his visions until Lady Prestor touched him and remarked how astonished she was by his nobility. Bolvar surmised that Varian becomes befuddled when around her and loses his honor and respect for others. Bolvar becomes more anxious about discovering the secrets of Varian's abduction and sudden return; knowing this would lead to trouble.

Via magic, Bolvar informed King Magni that Windsor's report indicated he was close to discovering the dragon's identity but was captured by Dark Iron dwarves in Blackrock Depths. Lo'Gosh and his allies mounted and rode to Blackrock Depths and rescued Windsor, who revealed to Lo'Gosh what he had discovered regarding his investigation.
Return as King

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft manga or comics.



Enlarge

Lo'Gosh fighting a dragonspawn.

Marching through the gates of Stormwind, Lo'Gosh and his friends were halted by General Marcus Jonathan under the direct jurisdiction of Katrana Prestor, who ordered their immediate arrest and execution as traitors. Windsor succeeded in convincing Marcus of his loyalty to Stormwind as they had previously served together under Turalyon.

Katrana Prestor hastily gathered soldiers, only to have the false-Varian tell her that she was disobeying the chain of command and was not in charge of Stormwind. Entering Stormwind Keep, Lo'Gosh declared Katrana's masquerade was over and called her by her true name: Onyxia.

Revealing her dragon form and transforming multiple guards into dragonspawn, Lo'Gosh and his allies began battle in the great hall of Stormwind Keep. The arrival of Highlord Bolvar Fordragon along with Anduin greatly aided them in securing the keep, but Reginald Windsor was killed moments later by Onyxia.

Lo'Gosh engaged his doppelganger, claiming he threatened the stability of his kingdom and nearly cost the Alliance Thandol Span, only to have his doppelganger retort that he was starting to repress her spells and regain control of his actions. Anduin, surprised by seeing two Varians, urged them to stop fighting each other and face the true threat, the brood mother Onyxia. The great dragon snatched Anduin and teleported them to her lair, daring Varian to follow suit. Regrouping with their friends, Lo'Gosh and Varian were left to grieve the loss of their son. Lo'Gosh announced to their friends and allies that the final battle would end in Onyxia's Lair.

Relinquishing command of Stormwind to Bolvar, his old friend begins to sense that despite two Varians commanding Stormwind, they both carried polar opposite personalities. Lo'Gosh was incredibly anxious to find his son while showing incredible will in commanding his troops, while the other Varian was calm, passive and charming ever since ridding himself of Onyxia's influence.

After journeying across the sea and dispatching some of Onyxia's drake assassins, Varian's forces finally arrived at Theramore. They all met up with Jaina Proudmoore and she told them she had discovered what dark magic was used on the two Varians from an old tome. Jaina came up with the theory that Onyxia greatly gained influence over Varian after his wife's death but periodically lost control as Varian's attachment to Anduin grew. Thus, she attempted to reassert her control by using a spell that would not kill Varian but would remove and destroy his conscience, will, and responsibility.

Jaina cast enchantments around the two Varians that enabled them to recall the last part of their abduction — they were split into two people by a botched spell from Katrana Prestor. Under the guise of Katrana Prestor, Onyxia botched a spell on Alcaz Island that divided Varian into two different Varians. But before Onyxia's ritual could be completed, she was interrupted by naga led by Morgala Darksquall, who attacked her. Moments later, the naga kidnapped both Varians, though the one that would later be known as Lo'Gosh jumped into the sea and escaped, the second being ransomed. The two Varians came to the startling conclusion that they are both the same person and at the same time only half of what they should be. Jaina explained that although Onyxia's spell split them in half, they were both able to fight past the spell and regain who they truly were, even though they both lived as separate beings. One Varian became Lo'Gosh, the gladiator champion of the Crimson Ring and fought to regain his memories and birthright. The other Varian was ransomed and returned to Stormwind and was further ensorcelled by Onyxia. While bereft of will, he would break free once again. After a moment, Jaina unveiled two ancient elven swords: Shalla'tor and Ellemayne; and presented them to the two kings. After receiving their new weapons, both Varians decreed retribution would finally be brought to Onyxia.
Corruption ends

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft manga or comics.



Enlarge

Lo'Gosh and Varian wielding their twin blades Shalla'tor and Ellemayne.

Leading a mounted charge, both Varians cut bloody swathes into Onyxia's dragonspawn ranks. Jaina disabled the impeding magical barriers while Varian and his allies used steel and magic to slay Onyxia's brood. Eventually, they encountered the brood mother herself, with Anduin imprisoned under her iron grip. Onyxia held Anduin hostage, threatening to kill him if Varian didn't surrender Stormwind over to her. Anduin urged his father not to give in to her threats and Lo'Gosh agreed to fight and die with Anduin if need be. Lo'Gosh threw a knife at the dragon's claw to loosen her hold over Anduin. Anduin fell at a great height but was caught and saved by Broll Bearmantle, who had taken his raven form to catch him mid-air. With Anduin's safety secured, the Stormwind army continued the battle.

Leading an assault against Onyxia, both Varians engaged her in battle. Weapons and magic clashed with her numerous dragonkin with both sides determined to win. Onyxia cast a fear spell on Broll and tail swiped Jaina, removing them from the battle after growing agitated by their constant spellcasting.

Becoming desperate to end the fight, Onyxia began casting the spell she was going to use on Alcaz Island to kill Lo'Gosh, but Lo'Gosh's double responded by stepping in front of the blast, saying he should die because Lo'Gosh was the embodiment of the true Varian.

Not willing to sacrifice his double, Lo'Gosh leapt alongside his other self hoping to save him. The magic spell became disrupted by having the two Varians in the spell, and after a moment of silence Varian emerged, his two halves fused back together.

Onyxia desperately tries to incinerate him, but Varian swiftly reached Onyxia's head and impaled her with his newly-fused elven sword, Shalamayne. With Onyxia dead, Varian reunited with his son and friends, telling them their long and noble deeds will be rewarded and Stormwind has been reborn with a new hope for the future. King Varian then decapitated Onyxia and sent her head to be hung from the ramparts of Stormwind while Broll Bearmantle summoned roots from the ground to seal her lair's entrance and to kill her unhatched progeny.
Theramore peace summit

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft manga or comics.



Enlarge

Garona attempts to assassinate Varian.

While returning to Theramore, Varian was asked by Jaina Proudmoore to meet with the orc Warchief Thrall so that they may discuss plans to ease tensions between the Horde and Alliance. Varian, however, was still wary of orcs for their role in Stormwind's destruction during the First War and didn't trust them to be true allies; yet Jaina assured him that Thrall was someone she trusted with her life. Though he was content with just Stormwind and the Horde no longer being in a state of open war and reluctant to enforce such a peace, he was convinced by Anduin and Valeera to attend, citing that a human-orc alliance may benefit Stormwind's prosperity.

At Theramore, Varian and Thrall had a peaceful discussion with an eye toward mutual gain. They first talked of their pasts and then discussed resource problems; like the Horde's war against the night elves for lumber. Varian offered to provide Thrall's people with lumber and in exchange, the Warchief offered copper and exotic hides in return. Varian had to end the summit early as Goldshire and Southshore were reported to be under simultaneous distress by the Scourge. Thrall and Varian were about to depart amicably but upon exiting Theramore, the Twilight's Hammer cult invaded the city. The Alliance races of the Twilight cultists attacked the Horde representatives while the Horde races of the Twilight cultists attacked the Alliance representatives. After catching a glimpse of Garona, Varian thought that Thrall had sent her to assassinate him as the Shadow Council had done in the past with his father After a time battling, the Twilight's Hammer's casualties began to rise. Varian was about to strike a mortal blow to Garona when Med'an entered to protect his mother. Varian tossed Med'an aside and was captured by a retreating Stasia who left Garona to die at the hands of their targets. Garrosh accused the Alliance of orchestrating the attack while Varian accused the Horde; specifically Garrosh. Though Varian was suspicious of the Horde's involvement with the attack, he decided to investigate and reveal the true motives and conspirators of the attack by interrogating Garona himself. Yet Garona was ensorcelled with magic that made her believe that she had planned the assassination out of her own volition. All that Varian managed to get from her was that her mission was not only to assassinate him but his son, Anduin, as well. Varian enraged, was on the verge of dispatching Garona once again only to be stopped by Jaina this time, who had claimed Garona as Theramore's prisoner.

Before Varian left Theramore to prepare his campaign against the Scourge, he was convinced by Valeera to let her remain in Theramore and work with the ensorcelled Garona to reveal Garona's masters and deal with the threats to Varian and Anduin's safety. Varian declared he will no longer attend any more peace summits and that after the threat of the Scourge has been dealt with, he will return to Theramore to claim Garona for execution.
Wrath of the Lich King

This section concerns content related to Wrath of the Lich King.



Enlarge

Varian leading the defense against the undead.

When the Lich King awoke, he sent his Scourge into all corners of Azeroth. To defeat the Plague of Undeath and necropolises, members of the Church of the Holy Light traveled to Shattrath and created an artifact of the Naaru's Light. Adventurers of the Alliance delivered it to Varian for defense.

Soon after regaining his throne, Stormwind was attacked by the undead legions of the Scourge. Varian, alongside his friend Bolvar Fordragon, was successful in repelling the undead forces after a long battle in Stormwind Harbor. Founding the Valiance Expedition to contend with the Horde and lead the Alliance in destroying the Lich King, Varian sent Bolvar to oversee the creation of a base at Angrathar the Wrathgate in the Dragonblight, right in the shadow of Icecrown itself.

After being directly approached by Thassarian with a personal request from Highlord Tirion Fordring, King Varian permits death knights of the Ebon Blade into the Alliance to aid in the fight against the Lich King.

After receiving word of Bolvar's death, Varian was overwhelmed with anger and sorrow, having considered Bolvar a brother for ruling his kingdom and raising his son during his absence. He sent Jaina Proudmoore to Orgrimmar to discover the reason for the Horde's betrayal. He deemed this as an act of treachery and demanded retribution for his friend's death. Jaina returned and informed Varian that Varimathras and the Royal Apothecary Society had betrayed them all, and the Horde no longer controlled the Undercity.



Enlarge

Varian unique model in World of Warcraft.

Varian and Jaina gathered the Alliance army and attacked the Undercity, hoping to reclaim it as Lordaeron for the Alliance and bring Putress to justice. When entering the Undercity, Varian becomes disgusted by the condition of the once-great city, which he had known since childhood. Tracking Putress to the Apothecarium, Varian and Jaina defeated him. But to Varian's horror, they also discovered dozens of mutilated and defiled human corpses, on which the Apothecary Society experimented on to create the New Plague. Realizing that, although the Alliance and Horde agreed to a small truce over the years, the Forsaken had been secretly creating a means to kill them all.

Varian confronts Thrall and declares that peace can never be achieved. When a fight breaks out between the Alliance and Horde, Jaina stops Thrall and Varian from killing each other and teleports Varian, herself, and the Alliance army back to Stormwind, hoping to stop further bloodshed and chaos. After losing his friend Bolvar Fordragon, and defeating Grand Apothecary Putress, Varian appears to declare war against the Horde during the quest The Battle For The Undercity "The Battle For The Undercity (Alliance)") after the attack on Thrall and his forces in the Undercity.

This section contains information that needs to be cleaned up. Reason: Past tense.

When Brann Bronzebeard learns that Yogg-Saron has escaped its ancient prison in Ulduar, Rhonin and Jaina Proudmoore request aid from King Varian, and so he asks for them to meet in the Violet Citadel. While Rhonin is speaking with King Varian, Thrall and Garrosh Hellscream arrive at the citadel and disregard Jaina's warnings not to enter the tower.

Before Rhonin is able to explain Varian turns and sees Thrall and Garrosh demanding to know what they are doing there. Garrosh insults Varian and draws his weapons, and Varian does the same before Garrosh charges at him, knocking Jaina out of the way in the process. After Rhonin breaks the fight up, he calls upon the Horde and Alliance to work together against the Old God. Varian points out that more men died from the Horde's treachery at the Wrathgate than from the Scourge, and refuses to ally with them. Telling Thrall and Garrosh "may this death god take you all," he promptly teleported out with his men.

King Varian, accompanied by Jaina Proudmoore, attends tournaments at the Crusaders' Coliseum in Icecrown, surrounded by various champions and representatives of the Alliance.

Varian, again accompanied by Jaina, appears in Icecrown Citadel "Icecrown Citadel (instance)") during the Alliance outro following the defeat of Deathbringer Saurfang. Muradin Bronzebeard attempts to block Varok Saurfang from claiming the body of his son, but Varian intervenes on the High Overlord's behalf, voicing his respect and honor for fellow warriors, and allows him to pass.

Some time after the opening of the Frostwing Halls, Varian can also be found in the entry hall of Light's Hammer. He provides the  buff for Alliance raiding parties. If you speak to him and tell him he is not needed, you will need to reset the instance (provided you are not already saved to it) in order to gain the buff again.
Stormrage

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.

Sometime after the defeat of the Lich King, Stormwind was being attacked by the Emerald Nightmare corruption. Varian was able to escape its corruption using an anti-dreaming potion. Yet to his horror, he was unable to save his son Anduin, who was one of many consumed by the Emerald Nightmare mist. At some point, he was visited by his old friend Broll Bearmantle, Tyrande Whisperwind, Lucan Foxblood, and the orc Thura. When he saw Thura, he wanted to attack her, but he was calmed by the night elves who vouched for her. Varian had to stay in Stormwind Keep, so he sent Major Mattingly to escort the group through Stormwind City.

When Malfurion Stormrage gathered a diverse army of survivors to assault the Emerald Nightmare and do battle with the Nightmare Lord and his army of corrupted nightmare creatures, he tasked Varian to lead the army in the upcoming battle. Still embittered and distrustful of the Horde, he adamantly refused to lead an army with Horde members with in its ranks and preferred that the Emerald Nightmare take the Horde. He later reconsidered and agreed to lead the army when he was convinced by Malfurion to put his hatred aside for Anduin's sake. Though Horde members were wary of being under Varian's command, through the efforts of Baine Bloodhoof, the Horde races were able to put aside their differences and follow Varian's orders. Varian Wrynn led the diverse dreamform army in the Emerald Dream and against impossible odds, the army was able to keep the Emerald Nightmare's army preoccupied while Thura and Malfurion defeated the Nightmare Lord on both the Emerald Dream and Azeroth planes. Even as the battle grew dire, those who knew the legend of Lo'Gosh grew more confident under his leadership when they saw flashes of a wolf's countenance appear in Varian's dream form. After the threat of the Emerald Nightmare had been defeated, the world began to rebuild. King Varian was one of the Alliance guests who attended the wedding ceremony between Malfurion Stormrage and Tyrande Whisperwind. Having heard of Lucan's role in the war, he promoted him to the position of chief cartographer.
Elemental Unrest

This section concerns content related to Wrath of the Lich King.



Enlarge

King Varian confering with the other Alliance leaders at Stormwind Keep.

King Varian took part in the discussion about the recent earthquakes with the other major political heads of the Alliance. He also learned about the infiltration of the Twilight Hammer cult within Stormwind society and vowed to destroy it.

Later on during the final event, Varian also assisted in the defense of Stormwind during the elemental invasion of the city, he primarily operated out of the Trade District. He also assisted Alliance heroes in the destruction of Prince Sarsarun and Kai'ju Gahz'rilla.
The Shattering

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.

This section contains information that needs to be cleaned up. Reason: Past tense.



Enlarge

King Varian and the SI:7 infiltrating Ironforge.

While attending a memorial service for those who died from the Lich King war at the Cathedral of Light, the service was interrupted by two night elf Sentinels who reported a savage and brutal attack on one of the night elf convoys and the thievery of their goods. Though the Alliance and Horde agreed to a peace treaty after the Lich King war, the brutality of the attack left everyone on edge and was considered in violation of their peace treaty agreement. Varian automatically suspects Thrall to have ordered the attack but Jaina Proudmoore comes to his defense and vouches that most likely these attacks were not authorized by him, nor should he be held responsible for them, as she claims that Varian also can't control all of his people as evidence of the Defias. Angry with Jaina for recalling the Defias to him, Varian's Lo'Gosh personality emerged, and he becomes intimidatingly aggressive as he accuses her of being a poor judge of character, as evidence of her misjudging Arthas, as well as a “mewling pacifist” who puts peace first, no matter the cost.

Anduin overhears their argument and interrupts them. He leaves disgusted with his father's attitude towards Jaina and pacifism, a philosophy that he also believes in. Varian later apologized to Jaina for their spat and informed her that he would not take any violent actions against Thrall without proof. It seems that Varian knows, or at least heard some rumors, about the fate of Bolvar Fordragon atop the Icecrown. He sent an emissary to question Thrall on the attack. He stipulated to Thrall that he publicly denounce the attack, make a reaffirmation of the Horde's commitment towards the peace treaty, send all offenders of any attack to the Alliance, and publicly reprimand the savagery in which the attack was committed. Thrall was only willing to reaffirm the Horde's willingness to continue the peace treaty and denounce the breaking of the treaty, but his unwillingness to reprimand the savagery in which the attack was carried out, the thievery of the night elves' goods, or apologize for the murders, has weakened his popularity with Alliance leaders.
Varian thought it best to send Anduin away to Theramore, where he can be under the guardianship of Jaina Proudmoore, and later Ironforge, where he can learn to improve his martial training and hopefully understand the need for his caution with the Horde. Varian figures that it would be best for him and Anduin to spend some time apart while he figures out how to deal with the aggressive outbursts evoked by his Lo'Gosh personality. Later he, his son, Jaina and many others were present during the funeral of Magni Bronzebeard.

When Varian heard that Moira Thaurissan took over Ironforge with her Dark Iron guards in the wake of King Magni Bronzebeard's petrification, Varian was outraged. Moira was holding everyone in the city hostage, including his son for a time. Varian and eighteen SI:7 operatives embarked on a mission to liberate Ironforge and assassinate Moira Thaurissan. When Varian was about to execute Moira, Anduin, who had rushed back to Ironforge, convinced Varian that it would be better to guide Moira to be a better leader rather than to just execute her. Despite Moira being a tyrant who held the city hostage, she was still the legitimate heir to the throne, and killing her would only put the succession of Ironforge into question, thus leading to more chaos and conflict. Where as if she lived; through her and her son, all dwarven clans can unite. Varian slowly agreed but was also conflicted as Moira had caused so much chaos and had already threatened the safety of his son. Varian agreed to spare Moira's life but stipulated that if Moira was to be a leader and unite the dwarves, then she'd have to earn her crown by earning her people's respect. In order to take into account the opinions of all dwarves, Varian called for the formation of the Council of Three Hammers. Both father and son hugged and reconciled while the populace of Ironforge applauded King Varian's decision.
Wolfheart

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.



Enlarge

Varian's face on the cover for Wolfheart.

As Genn Greymane was boasting about Gilneas "Gilneas (kingdom)")' victories against the Horde during the banquet welcoming the Alliance dignitaries, Varian Wrynn arrived and mocked Gilneas. Varian insulted Gilneas by implying that they were pathetic cowards and weaklings. Despite the insults to him and his people, Genn held his anger in check and tried to persuade the king of Stormwind that Gilneas had changed and that they were now ready to be staunch supporters of the Alliance. Varian Wrynn however, was still bitter over Gilneas' abandonment of the Alliance during their hour of need during the Third War. Varian denounced Gilneas as an ally and absolved himself of any association with the desperate nation.

During the summit to decide if Gilneas would be readmitted into the Alliance, Varian Wrynn declared that the Alliance had no need for such fair-weather friends and would never consent to allowing such "mongrels" into the Alliance. This left the summit in an uproar and effectively ruined any chance Gilneas had of joining the Alliance.

Though Malfurion Stormrage tried to persuade Varian to reconsider his position, his pleas fell on deaf ears. Varian cynically declared Malfurion's summit a failure, just like so many other things that transpired in his life. Varian reveals that the turmoil his kingdom suffered under Onyxia's influence, the deaths of Tiffin and Marshal Windsor, and Lordaeron's fall "The Scourge of Lordaeron (History of Warcraft)") all weigh heavily on him. Even now, he struggles with being thrust into the position of humanity's de facto leader. Before departing, Malfurion advises Varian to forgive himself for his faults and not to judge Genn with the same high standards that he places upon himself, as he would never be able to compete or be given the chance to redeem himself. After the summit, Varian planned to leave Darnassus as soon as possible and return to Stormwind. Yet Prince Anduin Wrynn, having overheard his father and Malfurion's argument, decided that he would not be returning with him and would be traveling with Velen on his journey. Varian, desperate not to lose his son, adamantly urged him to stay in Stormwind. With his father refusing to listen to him, Anduin turned to leave which drove Varian into a panic. Driven by rage and determination, he grabbed Anduin's arm and inadvertently hurt him. Varian desperately pleaded with his son not to leave, promising never to hurt him again, but Anduin was set on his path.

Varian sulked in Anduin's quarters, trying to drink away his sorrows. Malfurion invited him to go hunting in order to lift his spirits, but this was a ploy to bring Varian and Genn together. Having lured Varian into the worgen's hunting grounds, an argument was sparked between Varian and Genn about who was the better hunter. Malfurion proposed a hunting challenge to settle the matter. Relishing a chance to humiliate the Gilnean king in front of his subjects, he took up the challenge and attempted to kill every one of Genn's prey in order to put him to shame. While chasing a boar, however, they inadvertently agitated a giant bear. With one of Genn's subjects in danger, the Gilnean king and the king of Stormwind worked together to kill the giant bear, with Varian landing a killing blow to the bear's neck with his hunting knife. Genn and his worgen honored Varian for his kill, though he didn't stay around to accept it as he snuck off to reflect in the woods.

After much reflection, Varian sought Genn out again just as he was about to depart from Darnassus. Varian asked him for his help in how to better control his rage. Genn led him to the Howling Oak where he showed him a night elf ritual that allowed the worgen to control their bestial fury. Though he did warn him that not all survived the trials the ritual entailed, and some had to be put down since they lost themselves to their worgen nature. Varian then drank the waters from the Wells of Tranquility, Balance, and Fury; all at once.



Enlarge

King Varian, scion of Goldrinn, leading the worgen in battle across Ashenvale.

Taught by Genn to recall the most relevant moments in his life and the choices that led to it, Varian first recalled his childhood. In the Trial of Tranquility, Varian remembered how peaceful and happy he was growing up with his family. Yet that all ended when the orcs came, invaded his home, and assassinated his father. Though his childhood was taken from him by war and violence, he realized that the good memories remained with him and the trauma could not erase what he had lived prior.

In the Trial of Balance, Varian recalled his youth as a young king. Despite having a façade of an intelligent, diplomatic, and upbeat ruler to his friends like Prince Arthas and his foster father King Terenas, Varian could not keep hidden the occasional bouts of despair and depression. Only his betrothed, Tiffin, with her vibrant personality, was able to bring balance to his dark, brooding self. By bringing laughter and joy into his life, Tiffin helped Varian grow into the king that the people loved. Varian vowed to honor her memory by moving on from her death and learning to forgive, learning from his mistakes, and using them all as examples of how to confront all his issues as a man, father, and monarch.

In the Trial of Fury, Varian recalled Anduin and how he was the most precious thing in his life. He often feared for Anduin's safety but knew that fear would only make him helpless to those things that threatened his son and his kingdom. Thinking of those threats put Varian in a rage, but as his anger grew, he recalled how his rage hurt Anduin and drove him away. Varian turned on his rage and sought to control it. Varian promised himself that he would no longer be dominated by his rage, and would channel it only in battle; as a devastating force against those who sought to harm those that he loves. Varian heard Goldrinn howling in approval, and he awakened, with Genn and the worgen watching in awe as the aura of Goldrinn enveloped him. Without a shadow of a doubt, Varian was indeed Goldrinn's champion. Varian told Genn to gather his worgen, as he was determined to do battle with his enemy, Garrosh Hellscream.

Having gathered the worgen and his forces, Varian mobilized his forces through Ashenvale and reinforced the Alliance forces battling there with Garrosh Hellscream's Horde. Following Varian's example, the worgen swarmed the massive magnataur and targeted their weak spots to bring the giant beasts down. With the spirit of Goldrinn fueling him with renewed vigor, Varian led the charge against the Horde, killing magnataur, Kor'kron, and Horde races that stood in his way. Goldrinn's image formed from the dust and mist left behind in Varian's wake, and many Alliance forces took to yelling the names Goldrinn and Varian as their battle cry. Varian drew the Alliance races to him as he led an indomitable charge in his pursuit of Garrosh Hellscream. The two leaders clashed on several occasions, killing anyone who interfered with their duel. Yet while Garrosh tired, Varian was still full of stamina, allowing him to press on with his attack. Varian subsequently was able to wound and disarm Garrosh of the mighty Gorehowl, but before the fight could be concluded, a dying magnataur separated the two combatants. Though Garrosh wanted to settle the matter, the battle had turned unfavorable for the Horde and on the insistence of his Kor'kron guards Garrosh reluctantly had to retreat. Varian allowed him to leave, citing that a good hunter knows when to let his prey run.

In the aftermath of the battle, Varian was honored as the hero of the battle for Ashenvale and Goldrinn's favored champion. Varian later called for a second Alliance summit, this time being a proponent for the induction of Gilneas and the worgen into the Alliance. Having apologized to the Alliance dignitaries for letting his faults divide the Alliance, Varian later spoke of more recent and pressing issues. Varian spoke of how many threats have arisen to challenge the Alliance and disrupt the peace that they worked so hard to attain. The Horde has threatened the Alliance and now more than ever, it needs to band together and match their enemies' fury and energy in order to survive in this new Azeroth that Deathwing created. With the worgen at their side, Varian assures his allies that the Alliance will prevail and will do so with honor.
Blood of Our Fathers

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.



Enlarge

Varian in Blood of Our Fathers.

On Remembrance Day, Varian Wrynn had a nightmare in which he recalled the events of him witnessing his father's assassination. He could only watch on in horror, as Garona, with a tear-streaked smirk, plunged a dagger in his father's chest. Varian went to his father's side, holding him in his arms. The dying King Llane's parting words to the young Varian was "This is how it always ends… with Wrynn kings." After which, maggots erupted from the dead king's maw—thousands upon thousands of writhing worms obliterating Llane's ashen face. This horrifying scene caused the king to scream out in terror, awakening him from his nightmare and finding himself in Stormwind Keep, with General Marcus Jonathan rushing to check on his safety. After assuring Marcus that everything was ok and being disappointed with the news that Anduin hadn't returned home yet, Varian met with Archbishop Benedictus and Baros Alexston, who were discussing plans on repairing Stormwind City, which was still recovering from the attack by the Black Dragon Aspect, Deathwing. Much to Varian's annoyance, Baros noted that the extensive repairs to the city wouldn't be cheap.

As Varian examined the wreckage left behind in Deathwing's destruction, he came across a dagger-shaped obsidian splinter protruding from a damaged wall. It was a piece of the dragon's elementium armor. Varian seethed in anger as he held the shrapnel and sticking the splinter in his belt, declared that Stormwind would rebuild and stand firm, as they always have. Whatever the cost, they would make that black beast pay for his assault. In a discussion with Archbishop Benedictus about the turmoil plaguing the world following the Cataclysm, Varian remembered that he must give a speech during the Honor Ceremony later that day. Varian knew that Stormwind was looking to him for direction in such trying times, but felt unsure on what to say that would heal the deep wounds the world had suffered. General Marcus then informed him that the nobles awaited his presence in the throne room.

When Varian arrived, he was enraged to find that the nobles had been grumbling about the costs of the Alliance wars involving the kingdom, to which Varian harshly berated them for their petty complaints. Varian stated that he had led Stormwind to many victories, wars that have protected humanity and kept their enemies at bay. Varian declared that if his ferocity makes him a monster, then he is the monster that Stormwind needs. As Varian ended his diatribe, he looked around and caught the familiar face of Anduin staring back at him from the rear of the throne room. His son had arrived sometime during the king's rant. By the horrified look on the young prince's face, it was clear that nothing had changed since they last had parted on such bad terms in Darnassus. Anduin's eyes were filled with both fear and bewilderment, and he later fled the throne room, after which Varian's heart sank. Varian dismissed the nobles, causing the stunned audience to slowly file out, filled with fear both of the future and of the leader of mankind. As Varian touched Tiffin's locket, he reflected on how no one will ever understand the burdens he must endure to be a leader, and the things he must become.

Varian was left with Jaina Proudmoore and Benedictus, who tried to console and counsel him about his relationship with his son. Varian revealed his concerns that Anduin may not have the strength to lead the kingdom, especially in such perilous times. Both Jaina and Benedictus assured him that Anduin has a different strength to give to the world, and as a healer, he is attuned with the Light. Benedictus noted that the times have changed, and it is clear that they must change with them. The age when hearts like Lothar's were the only way to survive may be drawing to a close. The world seems to yearn for someone new. Benedictus offered both Varian and the prince a Remembrance Day gift, which he offered to give to him at a special location. Before departing, Benedictus assured Varian that he believed that Anduin would have the mettle and the makings of a good king, as all Wrynn kings have.

Varian later arrived at the meeting place that Benedictus told him, Tiffin's grave at Stormwind City Cemetery. As he gazed at Tiffin's grave, he questioned if Tiffin could still love the man he had become. Later to his surprise, he was met not only with Archbishop Benedictus, but his son Anduin as well. His excitement was soon extinguished though when he saw the shock in his son's face, which revealed that he had not expected to see him. Varian asked Benedictus if the surprise family reunion was his gift, to which Benedictus said that he also had another gift to give. Benedictus then drew a glittering silver key and placed it on Varian's palm. It was the key to Tiffin's locket, which had been lost many years ago. Benedictus felt now was a good time to remind the two of more pleasant and fond memories. Varian was deeply moved by this gesture and thanked Benedictus for being a good man and friend, after which Benedictus departed to give the two royals privacy for their reunion.

Having been reminded of their love for Tiffin and of family, the bad blood between father and son soon faded away. Anduin inquired from his father if the world was dying. Varian responded to his inquiry that he didn't have any deep philosophy on the matter, only that he believed that the world is based on cycles, and that death, kingdoms, and kings come and go, but truth, honor, and duty last forever. To which Anduin added that love also lasts forever, and in his opinion, outlasts everything. Suddenly Varian knew what he must do. He offered Tiffin's key and her silver locket to Anduin and placed it around his neck. For years, Varian had kept the locket to remind him of his responsibilities as king. To remember that actions have consequences, and a leader must live with his choices, both good and bad because so many are counting on him. He now bestowed it to his son with the hope that in the future, he too would make peace with the past. Varian apologized to his son for being so blind in not recognizing the man Anduin had become. Anduin began to tear up, confessing that he wished he could be the strong king Varian was but Varian assured Anduin that he has more courage and strength than he does. While Varian may stand rigid and inflexible against the storm, Anduin can feel the wind — and bend with it and make it his own — and thus become unbreakable. This type of strength was the type his mother possessed and will surely make him the greatest of Wrynn kings.

Throughout all this, they had taken notice of hidden assassins preparing to ambush them. Varian and Anduin prepared themselves for the assault by keeping their backs against the west wall, thus preventing the assassins from surrounding them. The king and prince soon defended themselves against the assassins who were warded by dark magic. Both father and son fought in sync, with Varian using Shalamayne to defend his son from the assassins while Anduin used his bow and arrows to shoot at them from a distance. Varian, however, knew that they were only being kept busy while the dark sorcerer of the assassins was summoning something insidious to kill them. Anduin then placed Power Word: Shield on Varian, and with the power of divine magic protecting him, Varian Heroic Leaped at his enemies. Varian began dispatching enemies left and right, with Anduin covering his father's unprotected flank with a hail of arrows. The crowns of Stormwind moved as one, slashing with blade and stinging with an arrow as they cut through the line of defenders toward the ever-more-desperate sorcerer. King and prince were a perfect team, with Varian dealing unending brute force and Anduin unleashing a fusillade of biting razorheads where it would do the most damage.

The dark sorcerer quickly realized his opportunity for success was growing short, and he redoubled his efforts, sending more purple energy snaking into the glowing field. As he did, something large and fearsome began to take shape within the portal's spinning haze. Though Varian and Anduin dispatched the assassins and managed to kill the sorcerer, it was too late, a massive Twilight Hammer drakonid emerged wielding mammoth twin axes. Things began to look bleak as nothing seemed to faze the warded drakonid. The drakonid managed to wound an already tired Varian and knock him out with a tail whip. Then he concentrated on Anduin, who after attempting to run to his unconscious father, barely managed to survive a savage blow to him by using his bow to deflect the impact. Though his bow shattered and he was knocked down, Anduin continued to dodge the drakonid's attacks. Soon Anduin was cornered and the drakonid brought down a mortal strike meant to kill. Anduin however was surprised to find Varian, deflecting the drakonid's axe with his sword and disarming it with its impact. Varian however had to disarm himself of Shalamayne in the process, which left him defenseless from the drakonid's second attack from his second axe. Varian was hit with the second attack right in his chest, and when he fell, he looked deep into his son's eyes to let him know that everything was all right. Varian could only think of his father's last words to him as he died, “This is how it always ends with Wrynn kings…”

Varian urged Anduin to run and prepared himself for the death blow. Yet Anduin ran in front of his father and placed a barrier to protect the two of them from the creature's attack. A golden nova of holy energy forced the monster to retreat as the prince advanced. As the drakonid charged, Anduin stood firm, surrounded by an aura of Holy Light. He opened his palms to the sky and spoke the words to dispel magic. With each word, the earth resonated with energy, shaking the gravestones and sending a ripple across the surface of the lake. A flash of fire exploded from the sky and hit the drakonid as he rushed in. The inferno blinded the beast, and he stumbled toward the serene silhouette of Anduin, the hideous creature screaming in both pain and rage. As the drakonid fell, his armor quickly faded to a dull gray, no longer protected by dark magics.

At the last possible moment, Varian, who had pulled Deathwing's splinter of armor from his belt, lunged forward with everything he had left in his body and ran it through the drakonid's armor and chest. Soon Jaina and Marcus Jonathan arrived on the scene, followed by a host of guards. As Varian lay dying, he told Anduin that he loved him, that he was proud of him, and to not mourn him as this had always been his fate. Though Marcus Jonathan and Jaina wanted to take Anduin to a more secure location, Anduin refused to leave his father. Praying to the Light, he infused his father's body with an influx of divine energy and saved his life.

Later, much to everyone's surprise, Varian arrived at the Remembrance Day Ceremony. Limping onto the stage, disheveled and covered in blood, came King Varian and Prince Anduin, barely holding each other up in their fatigue. As the realization of their dire state spread, a concerned murmur arose, but Varian raised his hand in a gesture of reassurance, and the crowd grew silent. It suddenly dawned on Varian that he had never found time to prepare his Remembrance Day speech. The king paused for just a moment, trying to smile through the pain, and then realized with utmost clarity that he now knew exactly what to say. He tells the people of Stormwind that though he has his faults, as their king, he has and always will have their best interests in mind. Even after Deathwing's attack, Stormwind will always remain vigilant and stand defiantly against their enemies. They will always rebuild from tragedy, and continue to learn from adversity. Stormwind will continue to grow from every direction, forging a brighter future. Each day they are alive is a great day, for each generation finds its own way to become the greatest generation that has ever lived and become the heroes of tomorrow. Varian states that though in the past they relied on strength and steel to forge their destiny, it is not the only way. In order to restore the world, a time will come when leaders need to be healers instead of warriors, those who mend instead of those who break. Only then can they truly cure their deep ills and achieve a lasting peace. Varian watched with pride as his words stirred the hearts of his people. The populace cheered for King Varian and this new direction for Stormwind.

Varian no longer felt alone in his struggle to protect the world. He had the blood of his fathers in his veins, and in turn, Anduin had it in his. Varian felt the warmth and comfort of his ancestors across the great divide. It gave him the strength to be king, and someday it would give Anduin the power to fulfill his own destiny. As Varian basked in the warmth of his people, he felt truly at home for the first time in years. He found himself relishing his great fortune to be a father, his incredible honor to be the king of Stormwind; and not for the first time, nor the last, King Varian Wrynn felt very proud to be human.
Cataclysm

This section concerns content related to Cataclysm.



Enlarge

Varian, King of Stormwind in Hearthstone "Hearthstone (game)").

The king of Stormwind, recently returned to claim his rightful place, has little love for the Horde. His reasons are many: when Varian was a young boy, he saw his father murdered by the half-orc Garona; the orcs' warchief, Orgrim Doomhammer, slew the valorous Anduin Lothar, who had delivered Varian safely to Lordaeron after the fall of Stormwind; Varian was later enslaved by the orcish gladiator trainer Rehgar Earthfury; and at the Wrath Gate, many brave Alliance soldiers died at the hands of the Forsaken's Royal Apothecary Society. Varian, who had always been wary of the orcs, discovered that the Royal Apothecary Society had been developing the new plague for years. The events that transpired during the battle for the Undercity convinced the human king that the Horde has been left unchecked for too long: the time has come to make things right.

Varian Wrynn is involved at the end of the Westfall storyline, where you must speak with him about the return of the Defias Brotherhood and the king's response of reinforcing the Westfall Brigade's forces.

King Varian Wrynn has also ordered Thassarian and Commander Ashlam Valorfist to assemble an army and purge the Scourge and Forsaken from Andorhal, with the intention of reclaiming the town for the Alliance. During the Battle for Andorhal, the Alliance managed to destroy the Scourge presence but the Horde, aided by their new Val'kyr allies, drove the Alliance out and claimed Andorhal for themselves, though Alliance troops slew the Val'kyr leader Aradne.

King Varian enlisted an Alliance champion to mentor his son, Prince Anduin Wrynn. After introducing the two, Varian reveals that he has been amassing a war fleet to assault the Twilight's Hammer in the Twilight Highlands but several setbacks have delayed its launch. In order to resolve the constant delays, Varian has tasked the Alliance champion to oversee the operation personally while Prince Anduin observes. Varian, wishing for his son to gain some life experience but fearful for his safety, instructs the player to escort him throughout his apprenticeship; this escort later turns into unraveling a Twilight Hammer plot where a trusted Stormwind guard attempts to assassinate Varian but Anduin thwarts his plans.

Finally, Varian sends you to the Twilight Highlands to assist the Alliance via Fargo Flintlocke's plane.
Traveler

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.

At some point after the Cataclysm and the battle in the Hidden citadel, Makasa Flintwill and Greydon Thorne came to Stormwind to report the Hidden plot and the Darkstorm threat to King Varian. They told him about the Diamond Blade as well but decided to tell him that the blade was broken beyond repair in the battle against Malus. Greydon remained here as an advisor to the king.

A month later, the king wrote a letter and sent a messenger to Greydon's son Aramar in Lakeshire, thanking him for his role in the struggle and sending him a fine dagger as a replacement for the Diamond Blade.

The Stormwind treasury also rewarded Gazlowe with diamonds for his part in the events.
Tides of War

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.

After Jaina Proudmoore learned about the Horde's plan to attack Theramore and conquer the whole of Kalimdor, she contacted King Varian to request reinforcements. Varian, having been briefed about the severity of the situation, ensured her that he would redirect the 7th Legion's naval fleet to Theramore as well as assign some of his finest generals to her in order to beat the Horde back.

Unfortunately, the battle for Theramore ended in defeat as Garrosh deployed a mana bomb to decimate the city. Stormwind set aside a day of mourning in honor of the fallen. Varian was surprised and relieved to find that Jaina had survived the battle. Jaina, however, has been changed by the experience. Though she survived, the mana bomb's blast has radiated her with arcane energy and has thus heightened her rage. She frantically requested that Varian and her immediately rally the Alliance fleets and annihilate the Horde in Orgrimmar, who would no doubt have congregated there to celebrate their victory over Theramore. Varian, however, tried to calm her down and informed her that the Horde had set up an effective blockade of Kalimdor, preventing them from regrouping with their night elf allies. Varian cautioned her that their retaliation must be done intelligently; after they've developed a sound strategy, rebuilt the fleet, broken the blockade and then regain Northwatch Hold. Doing anything other than that would be too reckless and costly. Jaina offered to use the Focusing Iris to decimate the Horde while they were still celebrating, but both Varian and Anduin were against using such a tactic to fight the war. Jaina was too impatient to work with the Alliance to fight the war and left to fight the Horde using her own methods.

Varian and his allies since then have been working hard to rebuild the fleet, with every race of the Alliance synergizing their military to provide an effective counter-attack. King Varian and other Alliance representatives have congregated in the War Room to develop an effective strategy to fight the Horde. Though the other representatives offered their input in how to break the blockade, Varian proposed that they not focus on the blockade yet. Instead, they would make the Horde believe that they'd sent their fleet to liberate Darkshore through a false trail, forcing Garrosh to order the bulk of his navy there. While the bulk of the Horde fleet is distracted, the Alliance will sail for Orgrimmar itself, besieging the city and assassinating Garrosh Hellscream. Perhaps even with the aid of those within Orgrimmar who were discontent with Garrosh's leadership. Though it was a bold plan, the other Alliance representatives agreed that occupying the Horde's capital would put the Horde in disarray. Despite protests from the House of Nobles, Varian resolved to lead the attack himself.

Before departing, Varian and Anduin gave an inspirational speech to remind the Alliance what they were fighting for. They will fight the Horde for justice, not genocide, and would never stoop to the monstrous tactics that the Horde has committed. They will embody the ideals of the Alliance and will gain victory on their terms. Anduin blessed the marines and his father, who were going off to fight the Horde. Varian left Anduin in charge of Stormwind while he and the Alliance fleet set sail for Orgrimmar.

The Alliance feint worked as the Alliance fleet was met with only a few Horde warships at Bladefist Bay. Yet Garrosh Hellscream unleashed another secret weapon: subjugated Kraken enthralled by magic, emerged and destroyed several Alliance vessels. Garrosh Hellscream himself boarded Varian's flagship and the two dueled for a third time. Again, their fight was interrupted as they were hurled away from each other as The Lion of the Waves was blown apart and sinking. Varian managed to survive the blast and managed to swim on to some ship wreckage. Many of the Alliance ships have fallen to the kraken, but he managed to float by one still intact. He ordered the Alliance fleet to retreat while he and those who were still stranded in the water swam to shore. Unfortunately, several more kraken came to impede their escape. With the fleet trapped, what remained of the Alliance fleet was in danger of being completely annihilated. With no hope of the Alliance fleet surviving, Varian resolved to die a glorious death; taking as many of the enemy as he could with him. Just then, Jaina Proudmoore used an army of water elementals summoned with the Focusing Iris to slay the kraken. Jaina and Kalecgos rescued Varian and the fleet sailed to Northwatch Hold, where the meager Horde resistance there was annihilated. With Northwatch reclaimed, Varian predicted that Garrosh would be forced to end his blockade of the other Alliance ports to further secure Durotar. Varian ordered an Alliance ship to accompany Lady Proudmoore to Theramore and give those killed there a proper burial. Meanwhile, Varian returned to Stormwind. All Alliance nations have been churning out weapons and rebuilding the fleet for the coming world war. Varian watched the construction of the new fleet from Stormwind Harbor and then returned to his keep to plan the war.
Mists of Pandaria

This section concerns content related to Mists of Pandaria.

A few months before the discovery of Pandaria, Anduin gave Varian a brass compass for his birthday.

In  \[1-20\] Joining the Alliance, Varian greets the pandaren who decide to follow the Alliance, lecturing them on what he expects of members of the Alliance and the fact that the Horde, even those pandaren who joined them, are their enemies.

Varian sent an adventurer and a few elite SI:7 agents to accompany the Skyfire in their mission to rescue the "White Pawn" (who, in fact, was a stranded and missing Anduin Wrynn on Pandaria).

Varian was also involved in a quest chain known as the " Trials of the High King", similar to the Labours of Hercules, to allow Alliance players to learn more about him.
Landfall

This section concerns content related to Mists of Pandaria.



Enlarge

King Varian Wrynn at Lion's Landing.

After two months since the parting of the mists, King Varian's fleet finally arrived in Pandaria. Varian and his guards land first and rendezvous with the Alliance hero and the Alliance vanguard. After being briefed of their status, King Varian accompanies the hero in rescuing Marshal Troteman and his scouts from a Horde war party. After securing the territory for which Lion's Landing was constructed upon from the belligerent Horde presence, Varian met with Hilda Hornswaggle: representative of the Explorer's League. Varian and the player also rescue her and her survey team from a Horde war party. Varian negotiates a deal with Hilda: the Explorer's League supplied Lion's Landing with a stone quarry in exchange for protection of their dig sites. After agreeing to his terms, King Varian then mused that leadership is about banding people together. With the territory and resources secured, the player signals the full might of the Alliance fleet to arrive and Lion's Landing is then established. After preparations for their home base was completed, Varian reunites with his son, Anduin. Though Anduin had his doubts about what the war could do to Pandaria, Varian assures Anduin that he is fighting the Horde not out of hatred but for a love of what's right. Varian asks Anduin to trust him to do the right thing and to also lend him his support. Both Varian and Anduin resolved to work together to protect Pandaria. When news reached them that Tyrande Whisperwind and night elf rangers have been pursuing a Horde party holed up in the Temple of the Red Crane, Anduin advises Varian to not let the temple turn into a war zone as it is still recovering from a Sha infestation. Sensing that Garrosh was trying to lure the Alliance from the beach, Varian planned on defusing the situation with a handful of champions.

Varian's first trial as High King occurs in the A Little Patience scenario. By displaying patience, Varian was able to lure out the Horde army from the Temple of the Red Crane and decimate them with the Alliance's hidden traps. The victory resulted in the annihilation of the Horde army and its commander with minimal to no casualties for the Alliance. This victory impressed Tyrande Whisperwind who then pledges the night elves' support to Varian's command.



Enlarge

High King Varian and Jaina Proudmoore talking about the Purge of Dalaran.

Varian is later seen in the Shrine of Seven Stars, where the Alliance dignitaries and allies discuss the pros and cons of using Sha power. Anduin reports to Varian that it was the Sha energy that was causing their troops to act so violently. Though Varian is confident that the Alliance could defeat any foe, Anduin advises Varian to not underestimate the Sha as it feeds on one's inner most weaknesses: twisting and manipulating their thoughts. Just then, an Echo of Hatred manifests and Jaina Proudmoore restrains it in an ice block. Many of the dignitaries are shocked or horrified by its dark power. While others sees merit in the Sha and want to study or weaponize the Sha's energy. Varian asks for Anduin's opinion on the matter and he states that while it may be possible to harness the Sha's power as a weapon, they risk destroying their own people in the process. A price that he is not willing to pay. Varian concurs with his son's assessment and destroys the Sha and thereby forbidding its use.

Though King Varian had no intention of interfering with Dalaran "Dalaran (kingdom)")'s neutrality, the Sunreavers of Dalaran still claim fealty to the Horde and represent a major threat to the war effort. King Varian sent Prince Anduin and an Alliance champion to negotiate the withdrawal of blood elves from Dalaran. Later on, King Varian heard of Lor'themar Theron's discontent with the Horde. Varian secretly reached out to the Regent Lord of Quel'Thalas and opened discussions to bring the sin'dorei back into the Alliance. After Jaina Proudmoore discovered that Sunreavers helped Garrosh Hellscream steal the Divine Bell by using Dalaran portals to infiltrate Darnassus, Jaina mobilized the Kirin Tor, Alliance forces, and the Silver Covenant to purge the Horde from Dalaran. After the purge, Jaina reported to Varian that Dalaran was free of Horde interference and pledges the Kirin Tor to the Alliance. Varian however, was disappointed that Jaina had not conferred with him before she acted as her attack on the Sunreavers would consequently drive the sin'dorei back to the Horde. Before Jaina left to mobilize the Kirin Tor, Varian stressed to her that the Alliance must act as one. With no chance of support from Horde defectors, King Varian planned on defeating Garrosh with only a united Alliance.

Later on, Varian discovers that Anduin and an Alliance champion went out on their own to stop Garrosh from using the . Though Anduin succeeded in stopping Garrosh and destroying the Divine Bell, it came at a great cost: Garrosh had shattered the bell, which crumpled onto Anduin and badly injured him. Varian regretted not having sent Anduin to Stormwind immediately and ordered for Velen to be sent to him at once. Varian then mournfully tended to his son while Jaina Proudmoore, who is furious at this assault, swears to Varian that the Kirin Tor will make Garrosh pay. After Jaina teleports out, Varian makes an affirmation that he will be the one to end Garrosh for this. With the Horde crumbling beneath Garrosh's leadership, Varian declares that the Alliance will deliver the final blow.
Blood in the Snow

This section concerns content related to Mists of Pandaria.



Enlarge

King Varian working with Queen Moira Thaurissan to repel the Frostmane tribe in Dun Morogh.

One day, King Varian's scouts discovered that Zandalari trolls threatened the dwarven capital by rallying the Frostmane trolls against them. Surely, the king thought, if he helped them with their troll problem, they would give him more troops for his campaign against the Horde. But what the King did not realize is that the dwarves did not trust one another. When Varian sought the help from the Council of Three Hammers, both Muradin and Falstad declined to offer aid in Ironforge's defense for they feared that if they left to fight the Frostmane trolls, the Dark Irons would take advantage of their absence to defeat the remaining clan and take over Ironforge. Frustrated, Varian argued that if no one would help, Ironforge would fall under siege. Only Moira Thaurissan offered aid, stating that the Dark Irons would prove their loyalty to the Council, Ironforge, and the Alliance in the defense of Ironforge. And so Moira and the High King set out in the snow to save the city, leaving the others to think about their actions.

When they arrived at Shimmer Ridge, they discovered that the trolls were using an unnatural storm to prevent the dwarven forces from advancing on them. Once the king's champions stopped the magical storm protecting Shimmer Ridge, Moira led her personal guard against the enemy troll village, at Varian's request. After rescuing the surviving mountaineers and slaying the elemental that the trolls were satiating with blood sacrifices to elicit the unnatural storm, the king's champions regrouped with Moira's Forgeguard and together their forces slew the Zandalari leader and captured the Frostmane village. In the aftermath of the battle, Varian commended Moira and the Dark Irons on their victory, even stating that the Bronzebeards and Wildhammers would regret not having been there to share in her glory. Moira, however, humbly stated that her intention was to protect and impress, not to shame; in response to which Varian acknowledged that she had accomplished just that. Both returned to Ironforge to announce her victory to the Council. On their return, the other dwarven leaders were ashamed of their behavior and vowed never again to allow fear or distrust to cloud their judgment. Free to trust one another, all three dwarven leaders pledged their full strength to the Alliance cause.
Escalation

This section concerns content related to Mists of Pandaria.

Before committing regular forces to the assault on Durotar, King Varian sent SI:7 agents Amber Kearnen and Sully McLeary to scout out a naval landing site near Orgrimmar, learn the enemy's weaknesses, and give Alliance landing forces any advantage they can find. After discovering a Horde civil war, an Alliance champion was sent as an envoy and established a coalition with the Darkspear Rebellion. With a little deft political maneuvering, the Alliance champion was able to secure a potential Alliance beach landing and ensure that trolls and orcs would kill one another up and down Durotar. After the civil war became escalated, King Wrynn sent the Alliance champion a letter commending the player for his/her efforts and even though he doesn't trust Vol'jin, he agrees with the player's decision on the field. King Varian states that he is preparing the Alliance fleet for the upcoming naval assault on Durotar.
Siege of Orgrimmar

This section concerns content related to Mists of Pandaria.



Enlarge

High King Varian confronting Warchief Vol'jin.

This section contains information that needs to be cleaned up. Reason: Past tense

Varian, along with Jaina Proudmoore, Vereesa Windrunner, Lor'themar Theron, Sylvanas Windrunner made landfall at the Bladefist Bay. After a heavy fight to wrest control of the exterior of Orgrimmar, in which the rebels and Alliance forces turn out victorious, Varian sends his champions to meet up with Vol'jin's rebels and Tyrande Whisperwind's Sentinels, who laid siege to the city's front gates. A large battle at the front gates and in the Valley of Strength ensued that might tie the fate of both factions into one. When the war moves to Underhold, Varian assists Alliance agents in the battle against Kor'kron orcs.

After the Alliance/Horde adventurers defeated Garrosh and the Heart of Y'Shaarj, Garrosh was knocked to the ground and incapacitated. Thrall, leaning over Garrosh's body, told him of how disappointed he was in him, and prepared to deliver him a final blow, but was stopped by Varian, who declares that Garrosh's punishment is not for him alone to decide. Thrall is reluctant to allow the Alliance to decide Garrosh's fate. Taran Zhu suggested that Garrosh instead be taken to Pandaria to stand trial for his heinous crimes against the peoples of Azeroth, to which Varian and Thrall agreed. Garrosh was then taken by Taran Zhu out of the room.

As the Horde gather together to discuss their next move, Jaina Proudmoore urges Varian to use this opportunity to conquer Orgrimmar and dismantle the Horde. Varian and his guardsmen march to the Horde congregation and demands that he speaks to the new Warchief who is revealed to be Vol'jin. Though the Horde has committed heinous crimes, because some of them fought against Garrosh's tyranny, Varian offered to end the war. As Varian walks away, he threatens Vol'jin that should his Horde fail to uphold honor like Garrosh did, the Alliance will return to end them.
War Crimes

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.

Some time after Garrosh's capture, Varian and the rest of Alliance leadership received an invitation from Xuen's emissaries to participate in the hearing of former Warchief's fate in the Temple of the White Tiger. On the way there, Ranger General Vereesa Windrunner wasn't pleased of the outcome with stopping Thrall from killing Garrosh Hellscream. Varian promised Taran Zhu to mete out justice after the trial was finished, then she might get her wish. After hearing about Garrosh's trial, the accuser was the king himself, but Vol'jin vetoed. Varian then chose Tyrande Whisperwind as the accuser shortly afterward. The Alliance leadership later met in Violet Rise during dinner. When the first day of the trial started, Varian compared the present to the spectators from arenas in which he used to fight. When the trial started, he had to stop Jaina from exploding in rage. When the introduction ended, he took Anduin out of the room and started thinking if stopping Thrall in the Underhold was the right idea. Varian prepared his son for Tyrande's questions as he was a witness. After a break, Varian learned that Garrosh wanted to speak with Anduin. Varian, though angered, let his son decide. Anduin agreed and Varian wanted to go with him but the prince refused. He then continued to watch the trial.

On the sixth day of the trial, Varian was furious when he learned that Jaina and Baine had worked together in the past. He asked Jaina whether Baine knew of Garrosh's mana bomb on which she responded he didn't know. When the day ended and they arrived to Violet Rise, the two leaders began arguing about the revelation of the day. After they were done, he received a letter that he is going to be Baine's witness. During the next day, he watched the vision of Theramore's obliteration. On the eighth day he was called as a witness with the vision, when he infiltrated Ironforge and wanted to execute Moira, being shown. The King closed his statement by telling that Garrosh was intelligent and he cared for the orcish race. Varian believed Garrosh may change. When Tyrande was asking, she wanted to point out that there were drastic differences between the two leaders and suggested to Taran Zhu not to take Varian's first statement into account - which the judge declined. During the last day of the trial, he heard out the closing speeches. After that, Kalec came to say goodbye to him, though the dragon was then stopped from leaving. The King then watched Garrosh and his last speech and noticed that Chromie is absent. He took his son to the arena's entrance and met with Go'el. At that moment, chaos erupted.

Garrosh escaped and the temple was attacked by dragon-riders. Varian ran outside and together with the pandaren, Horde and Alliance he fought against the attackers composed of the Dragonmaw clan on the backs of the infinite dragons and a group of pirates. Although an arrow hit him he continued to fight and faced a tauren pirate who almost killed him. The pirate was killed by a felguard belonging to a human warlock. Right after that, Varian's wound was healed by a night elf priestess. Afterwards, he noticed Zaela and knocked her off of the dragon. She bit him and was about to cut him with her axe but she was stopped when a fireball hit her. Jaina was preparing for a second fireball but couldn't follow through as Jaina was shot by Shokia. Varian noticed that and immediately rushed to take her to safety. Soon after the fight stopped and the remaining attackers retreated. Varian brought Jaina inside where many began healing her. Varian, feeling that it was over, wanted to take Anduin out, but at that moment, Chi-Ji took off and healed everyone, Jaina included. Chromie then explained the situation of the bronze dragonflight. Afterwards, Varian and the rest heard out the trial's sentence that not only Garrosh was judged but all of them.
Lords of War

Main article: Lords of War



Enlarge

Varian, conferring with Maraad in the War Room.

With the Iron Horde beginning its march, Varian examined the situation by planning alone on the War Room's map table display of the Blasted Lands late one night. Varian was not certain he could defeat what was essentially the same threat that killed his father and razed his city. He was interrupted by Maraad, who urged him to sign the declaration of war and told him about the prime timeline histories of several of the Iron Horde's warlords - Kargath Bladefist, Grommash Hellscream, Kilrogg Deadeye, and Thrall's father, Durotan. Varian became curious as to why Maraad was so eager for him to sign the declaration of war, stating that he seemed too bloodthirsty for a paladin. Maraad ended his story with his own experience with the Old Horde, and how he desired redemption from his past failures by preventing the Iron Horde from committing the same atrocities he had to endure. With his confidence restored, the King gave the order to sound the call to arms, stating that Azeroth needs heroes now more than ever.
The Iron Tide

This section concerns content related to Warlords of Draenor.

When the Iron Horde began its invasion, King Wrynn also sent the champions of the Alliance to help the forces in the Blasted Lands and to stop the orc threat. And later learns from Khadgar and Maraad about the situation.
Warlords of Draenor

This section concerns content related to Warlords of Draenor.

Before the Alliance left for the Dark Portal, the king recommended Maraad to put the adventurer in charge of operations on Draenor.

When Wrathion appeared at Admiral Taylor's Garrison, a message was sent to Varian to inform him of the Black Prince's presence on Draenor.

When the Garrison reaches its third stage, Varian promotes the commander to General of the Alliance's forces on Draenor.

After Gul'dan "Gul'dan (alternate universe)") took over the Iron Horde, Varian arrived in Lunarfall to plan the invasion of Tanaan. He suggested building a shipyard and sent the commander to the Iron Docks.
Legion

This section concerns content related to Legion.



Enlarge

Varian in the Legion cinematic.

When the Burning Legion returned to Azeroth, Khadgar flew to Stormwind Keep to warn Varian. He then attended the war council with the Horde in Dalaran alongside other Alliance leaders.

Varian led the Alliance's assault on the Broken Shore. Knowing the possibility that he might not return from this battle against the Burning Legion, en route Varian wrote a letter to his son, in which he acknowledged his support of Anduin's desire for peace, and the positive influence Anduin has had on his father's grasp of tolerance, patience, and faith. Lastly, Varian advises his son that to preserve the peace he desires, Anduin must be willing to fight. He took with him the compass Anduin had gifted him years prior to the battle. Fast approaching the Broken Shore, Varian exchanged a brief nod with Horde leader Sylvanas Windrunner atop her own gunship.



Enlarge

Varian attacking the fel reaver.

When a swarm of flying felbats became visible, Varian ordered his forces to engage. The demons attacked Varian's gunship, causing critical damage. Forced overboard with a looming abyssal preparing to attack, Varian was helped by Sylvanas, who leapt onto the Alliance gunship and fought with Varian to overcome the demon. Varian's gunship had collided with the Horde gunship and sustained heavy damage to its engines. The faltering gunship crashed into the sea, with Varian and numerous soldiers sinking deeper into the sea along with it, and the compass disappearing in the depths. Yet Varian survived the impact of the crash, removed his pauldrons, and resolved to fight. Varian swam himself out of the water, split Shalamayne back into two blades, and began a vicious assault on the gathered demons on the shore. Throwing himself into the battle alongside Sylvanas, Varian cried, "For Azeroth!"

This section contains information that needs to be cleaned up. Reason: Past tense

Along with Genn and Jaina, adventurers find Varian at the gates of the Black City. With their forces combined, they begin their assault, killing many demons and closing their portals. Along the way, they find Argent prisoners who had previously assaulted the city but fell as felfire started to rain upon them. Varian decides to search for Tirion Fordring and finds him held captive by Gul'dan. The Alliance forces rush to save him, but Tirion tells them its a trap. The giant eredar Krosus attacks the combined armies of the Horde and Alliance as Tirion burns alive before falling into the fel lava. The armies defeat the giant and chase after Gul'dan. The Horde splits off to secure the ridge overlooking the approach to the Tomb of Sargeras and cover the Alliance's flank, while the Alliance corner Gul'dan. Varian promises him a quick death, but the warlock is soon reinforced by a massive amount of powerful demons.

After a long battle, Varian orders an Alliance gunship to advance and instructs Genn Greymane to tell Sylvanas to have her forces clear the skies. Unbeknownst to the Alliance, the Horde is overwhelmed and forced to retreat, leaving the Alliance vulnerable. Varian watches in shock and disappointment as he witnesses the Horde forces quit the field. Genn Greymane is livid at what he sees as a betrayal on Sylvanas' part, while Varian is forced to order a retreat via gunship. As it takes off, however, Gul'dan summons an immense Fel Reaver through the portal, which grabs onto the side of the gunship, causing it to tip and send some Alliance soldiers plummeting to their deaths. Varian, dangling from a rope ladder on the side with Genn reaching down from the deck to pull him up, can only see two options: have Genn pull him up and hope the gunship will escape but risk it being pulled down and destroyed and killing everyone on board, or let go and destroy the Reaver so the gunship can escape but leaving himself behind to certain death.

Reaching up, he passes the letter for Anduin into Genn's open hand and asks him to deliver it to his son. Varian then let go and uses the momentum of his fall to impale the head of the Reaver with Shalamayne. As he momentarily watches to ensure that the gunship flies away to safety, Varian is left to make a final stand against powerful demons, killing several as he's increasingly wounded, before being impaled from behind by two felguard. Gul'dan gloats to the dying king that he will be remembered "as the king who sacrificed his life for nothing." Varian defiantly looks at the warlock in the eyes and says "For the Alliance." Gul'dan then painfully floods Varian's body with overwhelming fel magic, causing the wounded King to scream in agony as his body explodes. Even as far away from the gunship, Genn can see the explosion, crying out into the sky in anger and grief.



Varian and Anduin are warned of the Legion's return by Khadgar.

.png "Varian in the Legion cinematic.")

Varian in the Legion cinematic.



Varian and Genn before retreating.



Varian makes his last stand.



Varian impaled by the demons.



... For the Alliance.



Varian's death.



Fel magic consuming Varian.



Varian's remains.



Varian's funeral
Legacy

This section contains information that needs to be cleaned up. Reason: Past tense



Enlarge

Varian appearing to Anduin at Wrynnfall.

His memorial funeral was held in Stormwind Keep, with every leader of the Alliance and countless mourning citizens attending. The Alliance leaders discuss their future and Anduin is crowned King of Stormwind. Varian's empty casket is entombed at Lion's Rest, built within the former crater that was the Park; his tomb overlooks Stormwind Harbor, a monument to not only his sacrifice but to all Alliance forces who died at the Broken Shore.

The site of his death is now known as Wrynnfall.

Some time after the Armies of Legionfall formed, Anduin traveled to the spot where his father died. Just moments before, Genn and Velen reached the site to show the prophet that it was here where Varian fell in battle. Anduin responded that he hadn't seen the horrors that both Genn and Velen have gone through when battling the Legion. Genn told Anduin that he really didn't need to see this, but the boy continued to the entrance of the Tomb. Upon reaching his father's remains, he began to feel the same reaction: when his father got stabbed and fell to the ground. Anduin cleared the dust and found a Shalamayne blade left behind. He never surrendered, Anduin thought and began to doubt that he could be the king he was. Genn then approaches the young Wrynn and told him that his father's actions were indeed heroic. They were his challenge to the Alliance, and to teach people to never let fear prevail even at their darkest hour. Genn gives Anduin the sword at which point the Light grants Anduin a vision of Varian. Trying to collect his words, Anduin eventually asked what he should do now. The vision of his father reminded him to act as a king.
Shadowlands

This section concerns content related to Shadowlands.



Enlarge

The Light granting a vision of Varian to Anduin in the Sepulcher of the First Ones.

In the Shadowlands, Anduin fell under the control of the Jailer's Domination magic, with Shalamayne being transformed into the mourneblade Kingsmourne. In the Sepulcher of the First Ones, as Anduin struggled to regain control from the Jailer, the Light sent him a vision showing he was not alone: Anduin saw Varian appear by his side to remind him that Shalamayne had not been forged by darkness, but by valor. Varok Saurfang appeared at Anduin's other side to add that the sword had been forged by honor as well. Varian continued that both of their legacies along with that of Shalamayne were with Anduin. With their help, Anduin was able to split Kingsmourne back into Shalla'tor and Ellemayne and free himself.
Dragonflight

This section concerns content related to Dragonflight.

Time-displaced versions of Varian, Valeera, and Broll appeared in the Field of Ferocity in the Ohn'ahran Plains to fight any challengers and refused to return through their portals until beaten.

Another version "Varian Wrynn (Time Rifts)") of him also appeared in the Warlands alternate universe as the High King of the Great Glorious Alliance.
Locations

| Notable appearances |
| --- |
| Location | Level range | Health range |
| Shrine of Seven Stars | ?? | 129,993,600 |
| Blood in the Snow | ?? | 24,577,200 |
| Gates of Orgrimmar | ?? | 2,545,000 |
| Inner Sanctum (Siege of Orgrimmar) "Inner Sanctum (Siege of Orgrimmar)") | 93 | 15,270,000 |
| Lunarfall | ?? | 129,993,600 |
|  \[10-45\] The Battle for Broken Shore) | ?? | 329,045,207 |

| Notable appearances |
| --- |
| Location | Level range | Health range |
| Stormwind City | ?? | 129,993,600 |
| Battle for the Undercity | ?? | 12,656,000 |
| Argent Tournament Grounds | ?? | 51,180 |
| Crusader's Coliseum | ?? | 4,257,600 |
| Icecrown Citadel | ?? | 2,838,400 - 5,578,000 |
| Elemental Unrest | ?? | 697,250 |
| Elemental Unrest meetings | 82 | 53,614,800 |
|  \[10\] The Alliance Way | ?? | 169,200 |
| Krasarang Wilds | ?? | 129,993,600 |
| A Little Patience | ?? | 523,364,416 |
Quests

This section concerns content related to Mists of Pandaria.

Krasarang Wilds

\ 
\
\
\

Shrine of Seven Stars

\

This section concerns content related to Warlords of Draenor.

\
\
\
\
\
Removed content

The subject of this section was removed from World of Warcraft in patch 7.0.3 but may be present in Mists of Pandaria Classic.

\
\
\
\ 
\
\
\
\

The subject of this section was removed from World of Warcraft in patch 7.0.3.

 \
 \ 
 \ 

The subject of this section was removed from World of Warcraft in patch 4.0.3a.

Putress quest-line

\
\
\
\
\

Replacing Bolvar

\[60R\] Order Must Be Restored
\
  -  \

The subject of this section did not make it out of the PTR stages of patch 4.3.0.

\ 
Tactics

This section concerns content related to Warlords of Draenor.



Enlarge

King Varian Wrynn within Stormwind Keep as of moments before the Legion's third invasion of Azeroth.

King Varian was perhaps the hardest city leader to defeat for Horde players. The relocation of Stormwind Keep and the change of Stormwind's layout in Cataclysm made getting to Varian undetected nearly impossible. Additionally, Varian's elite guard were spread all the way along the path to the king, defending as closely as the steps of the keep itself. A fast kill was vital as Stormwind is highly populated during most hours and Alliance players were very likely to come to the aid of their King.

In addition Genn Greymane accompanied Varian, further complicating the battle. Genn didn't attack for the first two to three seconds after aggro as he changed into worgen form. Genn would be tanked separately from Varian and kept away from the rest of the raid due to his Intimidating Roar. For his other abilities, see Genn Greymane - Abilities.

Varian retained his previous abilities of Heroic Leap and Whirlwind as well as continuously spawning guards. In total King Varian and Genn Greymane had the largest total health of all the racial leaders (around 785 million), however the biggest threat in this fight was definitely the Alliance adventurers — success could rely almost entirely on how many players responded to the invading forces.

Only Varian's death was required for the  achievement.
Abilities

Heroic Leap — 8 - 25 yrd range. Leap through the air and slam down on all enemies within 5 yards of the target area, causing 50% weapon damage and stunning them for 2 sec. Instant.
Heroic Leap — Unlimited range. Leap through the air and slam down on all enemies within 5 yards of the target area, causing 50% weapon damage and stunning them for 2 sec. Instant.
Whirlwind — 8 yrd range. Attacks nearby enemies in a whirlwind of steel that inflicts 100% weapon damage. 2 sec cast.
Whirlwind — 8 yrd range. Attacks nearby enemies in a whirlwind of steel that inflicts 100% weapon damage. Instant.
Original appearance

The subject of this section has been removed from World of Warcraft.

Until patch 1.9.0, players could witness the king in his captivity in the sewer dungeons of Alcaz Island just north of Theramore, though he was not involved in any quests at the time. With patch 1.10, Varian was replaced with an elite level 62 warrior named Tidelord Rrurgaz and a sewer full of elite naga, and Alcaz Island became home to Doctor Weavil, a major part of the Gates of Ahn'Qiraj world event.

The comic series suggests that this Varian was the "twin" which did not manage to escape, but was instead captured by the naga and later ransomed back to Stormwind into the hands of Lady Katrana Prestor.
Personality



Enlarge

Varian and Anduin bonding over a hunt.

King Varian was a ruler with a fierce love for his people and his son, Anduin. He would willingly give his life to save his people. He was driven by ancient principles few understood today—a code of conduct that demanded something more of its leaders. He believed in the principles of truth, honor, justice, and duty. Though the events of his life left him severely distrusting of the Horde, he has shown a willingness to attempt peace. Before he was kidnapped by the Defias, he was en route to a peace summit with Thrall. Unfortunately, manipulations of the Twilight's Hammer made the conference with Thrall a disaster and reinforced his little love for the Horde. His reasons for his hatred were many: when Varian was a young boy, he saw his father murdered by the half-orc Garona; the orcs' warchief, Orgrim Doomhammer, slew the valorous Anduin Lothar, who had delivered Varian safely to Lordaeron after the fall of Stormwind; Varian was later enslaved by the orcish gladiator trainer Rehgar Earthfury; and at the Wrath Gate, many brave Alliance soldiers died at the hands of the Forsaken's Royal Apothecary Society. Varian, who had always been wary of the orcs, discovered that the Royal Apothecary Society had been developing the new plague for years. The events that transpired during the battle for the Undercity convinced the human king that the Horde had been left unchecked for too long and sought to dismantle it entirely; an attitude that grew worse throughout most of the Scourge war. However, after witnessing the fate of Dranosh Saurfang and sympathizing with the father's plight of Varok Saurfang, his attitude began to soften; bidding his men to stand down and allow Varok to retrieve his son's corpse, an action that moved Jaina to tears. Throughout the course of the Cataclysm "Cataclysm (event)"), Varian slowly grew more tolerant and diplomatic, taking many lessons from his son. He also reconciled his fury at tragedies he's endured with his hot-blooded behavior, enabling him to become more level headed in administering the justice he desired. Unlike Garrosh he did not use the Cataclysm to gain military advantage and focused on the more pressing threat of Deathwing and the Old Gods. By the time of the Pandaria Campaign, Varian had become far more composed and confident; proving his new attitude by rejecting the notion of utilizing the Sha as a weapon, leading a careful, controlled, and strategic operation to free the Temple of the Red Crane from Horde control, earning the respect of his allies, and ultimately declaring the war to be over with Garrosh's arrest, willing to give the Horde a second chance under their new Warchief.

When his consciousness was split by Onyxia, so too was his personality. One side retained all of Varian's knowledge, manners, and etiquette; while the other, Lo'Gosh, retained his skill in battle and was known to wage war with a relish equal to his enemies. Though the two halves were eventually reunited, they did so imperfectly. At times, Lo'Gosh was more dominant, and he was not one to shy away from conflict if he believed it was necessary.

In combat, Varian is renowned for his brutal strength, speed, and lightning reflexes. Garona Halforcen has compared fighting him to that of fighting two men at once. With the blessing of Goldrinn's spirit, he has even been shown to never tire in combat and have his senses heightened. Those who have seen him in combat describe his fighting style like that of a wolf. Varian can quickly take notice of an enemy's vulnerability and take advantage of it. He has also been shown to lure his foes into a sense of complacency and see them undone by the trap or ambush he has set up.
Monuments



Enlarge

Valiance Keep Monument.

A statue of King Varian, alias Lo'Gosh, stands in Valiance Keep in the Borean Tundra:

In tribute to King Varian Wrynn

known to some as LO'GOSH the "Ghost Wolf"

His miraculous return from long years of exile and hardship has ignited a new fire of spirit and courage within the Alliance.

We shall march boldly into these perilous lands holding his valor and his tenacity in our hearts.

\- Highlord Bolvar Fordragon

An additional statue of the king stands at the front of Stormwind Keep, though it bears no plaque.
Equipment

Varian's belt was previously worn by Anduin Lothar. It was probably destroyed when Varian died.  drops from Gul'dan "Gul'dan (tactics)") in the Nighthold "Nighthold (instance)"). In Hearthstone "Hearthstone (game)"), the rest of Lothar's armor is displayed in the Hall of Explorers.
The rest of Varian's armor appeared when Onyxia's spell merged Varian (who was dressed in royal finery) and Lo'Gosh (was wearing his gladiator equipment) back into one. Varian's armor featured the lion and gryphon (animals also featured in the Crest of the Alliance) in its design.
Varian wielded a legendary blade called Shalamayne, which was created from a fusion of Shalla'tor and Ellemayne. He used this weapon in the comic book, in the Secrets of Ulduar trailer, in the BattleCry mosaic, in the novel Stormrage, and in World of Warcraft (as of patch 3.3.3). It was later mentioned in The Shattering and saw battle in Wolfheart.
In World of Warcraft, Varian wielded two Cruel Barbs (in beta), two  blades (until 3.1.0), and then two swords that looked like Shalamayne (until 3.3.3).
Quotes
Beyond the Dark Portal

" Greymane only complains to hear the sound of his own voice."
Arthas: Rise of the Lich King

"My father tried to protect me, too. Didn't work. The realities of life have a way of intruding."
World of Warcraft Comics

"A gladiator's life is simple: You win and live, or lose and die. A king's life is more complex. The only truth for a king is that there are no easy answers."
"I will seek out my enemies, and woe betide those who set themselves against me."
"I am the King of Stormwind and no one, not the Naga, nor the Scourge, nor the fiery lords of the Burning Legion will keep me from my people!"
"When we win and the Lich King has been defeated...then let us hope your time, a time of peace and healing, will begin. When that day comes you will be greater than I."
Wrath of the Lich King

This section concerns content related to Wrath of the Lich King.

Scourge Invasion



Enlarge

Varian, Broll, and Valeera during the Scourge Invasion "Scourge Invasion (Stormwind)").

This latest affront by the Lich King must be dealt with. Stormwind is doing what we can, but it will require the effort of everyone to overcome. Only after the threat at home has passed can we begin to deal with the Scourge threat abroad.

The traitor prince Arthas tests us from his seat of power in Northrend. Rest assured that the Alliance will not sit on its haunches. Preparations are already underway... for war.

Defeating the Lich King and his armies will be a long and challenging ordeal. Death itself must be conquered. Many lives will be lost, but the future of Azeroth depends on our victory.

I only hope that you'll be able to join the battle in Northrend and contribute your skill and strength to the cause.

Stormwind

Too long have I been gone, fighting my way across Azeroth to rediscover my past and reclaim my throne. With all the challenges that have tested the Alliance in my absence, it warms my heart to see heroes such as yourself defending our coalition.

Greetings

" Stormwind honors your service to the Alliance."
"I am Varian, but I am also Lo'Gosh."
"The line of Stormwind's kings has been restored."
"My open hands will reward my friends, but let my enemies beware!"
" Stormwind is reborn!"

Irritated

"You want to compare scars?"
"You don't want to see my angry side."
"I'm of... two minds about all this."
"You must have me confused with the other Varian. He's not here anymore."
"Hmph... if only I were still in the Crimson Ring."

Farewell

"Never again will our kingdom be deceived."
"Our struggles are far from over."
"Serve with honor."
"Fare you well."
"The Alliance will forge a new destiny for Azeroth!"
Secrets of Ulduar

" At the Wrathgate, the Horde's partnership killed more of our men than the Scourge. I'm done with your Horde. May this death god take you all."
Notable dialogues

Main article: Scourge Invasion#StormwindMain article: The Battle For The Undercity (Alliance)#Notes#Notes "The Battle For The Undercity (Alliance)")Main article: The Battle For The Undercity (Horde)#Notes#Notes "The Battle For The Undercity (Horde)")Main article: Secrets of Ulduar trailer#TranscriptMain article: Argent Tournament#Alliance and Horde leadershipMain article: The Black Knight (tactics)#Quotes#Quotes "The Black Knight (tactics)")Main article: Northrend Beasts#QuotesMain article: Lord Jaraxxus (tactics)#Quotes#Quotes "Lord Jaraxxus (tactics)")Main article: Faction Champions#QuotesMain article: Val'kyr Twins#QuotesMain article: Light's Hammer#QuotesMain article: Deathbringer Saurfang#Outro as AllianceMain article: Elemental Unrest meetings#At Stormwind Keep
Blood of Our Fathers

"Some say I am no better than those we fight! That I am the monster. Well, if so, then I am the monster you need! I am the one ferocious enough to strike fear in the very heart of darkness! The one who has the courage to do whatever it takes to protect humanity from the abyss!"
Remembrance Day Speech

Hear me, people of Stormwind! Your king stands before you with his heart still beating, a drum that grows stronger each day as he sees the determination you have shown to rebuild from tragedy. Just as these statues still stand watch, so shall Stormwind, now and forever! We are gathered here on Remembrance Day to honor those heroes who have shown us the way, by the light of their lives and the glory of their deeds. Uther Lightbringer! Anduin Lothar! Once again, we face a new and great threat. Even now, we bear the fresh scars of evil forces bent upon our destruction. But humanity is not so easily cowed! We stand in the breach and we hold the line! We will never be slaves to fear! On this day we must remember not only the good but also the bad, for it is through adversity and failure that we become our best! I myself have been… an absent king, chasing our enemies to the very heart of the underworld. I hold your safety as my highest responsibility, your good livelihood my first and only calling. For the truth is it is not the people who serve their king; it is the king who serves his people! I have not always been the best leader… or father… or husband. A wise man once said, “We each must grow in every direction, every day.” Well, I still have some growth left in my bones. And behind me, I see a city rising from disaster, with fresh hope and gleaming new spires! Yes, today we honor the past, but only with our eyes firmly fixed on a brighter future! One that we will forge together, for ourselves, for our children, and for our children's children! Each generation is destined to achieve its great promise. To be sure, each will face a unique set of tests and adversities, and some will be certain that the end is near. But there is no truth to the tavern-told lie that the 'good old days' are forever behind us. No! Each day we are alive is a great day! And each generation finds its own way to become the greatest generation that has ever lived! In the past, we have relied on strength and steel to forge our way. We protect what we can, destroy what we must. But that is not the only way. If we are to ever restore this world, then there must come a time when the leaders of Azeroth are no longer the warriors, but instead the healers! Those who mend instead of those who break. Only then can we truly cure our deep ills and achieve lasting peace. Look above you! The heroes of old stand tall, and we honor and remember them well this day. But now look next to you! By your side, in this crowd, stand all the heroes of tomorrow! You… and you… and you. Each of you will play a part; each will make a difference; and in time, some will be honored on this day for deeds far greater than any we could possibly imagine! So, people of Stormwind! Let us unite this day. Let us renew our promise to uphold and protect the Light, and together we will face down this dark new storm and stand firm against it—as humanity always has… and humanity always will!
Wolfheart

"The fury, the anger, must have purpose! It must be the righteous anger of one defending his family, his home, and his friends."
Mists of Pandaria

This section concerns content related to Mists of Pandaria.

Gossip at the keep

If the Horde will push us over the brink into war, then so be it.

Light help me, I will fight for my kingdom and people.

Glory to the Alliance!

??

The pandaren may be strangers now, but in time, I believe they will prove to be valuable allies.

The burden of a king is great, as is the burden of a father. I will stop at nothing to find my son.

The Horde has committed heinous crimes, Vol'jin. But some among you fought against Garrosh's tyranny. For that, I'm willing to end this bloodshed. But know this: if your Horde fails to uphold honor as Garrosh did, we will end you.
A Little Patience

This section concerns content related to Mists of Pandaria.



Enlarge

King Varian and Tyrande Whisperwind reclaiming the Temple of the Red Crane from the Horde.

Greeting

We'll win this on my terms.
They're waiting for us. We've got to be smart about this.
I feel like I'm being "tested".
The Horde are no fools, we must be patient.
Make use of every resource we have.

Gossip

Welcome to the jungle, <name>.

 Orders, your majesty?

Take the laborers from camp here, and any others you can find in the region. Assist them in building defenses to ensure no Horde can escape our vengeance.One more thing. These troops are not trained for battle and must be protected from harm if they are to succeed.Now go, and be quick about it. Time is running out!
Blood in the Snow

Gossip

Find a way to stop that conjured storm, champion, and rescue whatever prisoners you can.

Fare you well.
Siege of Orgrimmar



Enlarge

King Varian within the Inner Sanctum "Inner Sanctum (Siege of Orgrimmar)").

Gossip

Garrosh's madness must be stopped, <name>. our future depends on it. While the gravity of this task is immense, I would not entrust this deed to another.
Notable dialogues

Main article: The Alliance Way#NotesMain article: An Old Pit Fighter#NotesMain article: Meet the Scout (Alliance)#Notes#Notes "Meet the Scout (Alliance)")Main article: A King Among Men#NotesMain article: Lion's Landing (quest)#Notes#Notes "Lion's Landing (quest)")Main article: A Little Patience (quest)#Notes#Notes "A Little Patience (quest)")Main article: A Little Patience#Stage GuideMain article: Heart Of The Alliance#NotesMain article: What Had To Be Done#NotesMain article: The Silence#NotesMain article: Blood in the Snow#Stage GuideMain article: Galakras#QuotesMain article: Kor'kron Barracks_Main article: Garrosh Hellscream (tactics)#Before cinematic#Beforecinematic "Garrosh Hellscream (tactics)")
 letter

For the Alliance!

Decades ago, bloodthirsty invaders emerged from the Dark Portal, rampaging through our lands and threatening our very existence. But with might, cunning, and a resolve that forged the Alliance amidst the flames of destruction, our champions drove them back. Take these arms and bear them with pride, for you are a champion of the Alliance!
Warlords of Draenor

This section concerns content related to Warlords of Draenor.

Main article: We Need a Shipwright (Alliance) "We Need a Shipwright (Alliance)")_Main article: The Invasion of Tanaan (Alliance) "The Invasion of Tanaan (Alliance)")
Legion

This section concerns content related to Legion.

Main article: Azeroth's Last HopeMain article: Legion: The Legion Returns (Alliance)#Notes#Notes "Legion: The Legion Returns (Alliance)")Main article: The Battle for Broken Shore (Alliance)#Notes#Notes "The Battle for Broken Shore (Alliance)")Main article: The Battle for Broken Shore (Horde)#Notes#Notes "The Battle for Broken Shore (Horde)")Main article: The King's Path#Notes
Other

"I wish the uprising back at home would settle itself soon. I wouldn't want anyone to be hurt."
"The time has come to bring retribution for the countless souls lost in Lordaeron's fall "The Scourge of Lordaeron (History of Warcraft)")!"
"It is a tragedy. I think... I believe that our kind is cursed. We are cursed to lose our greatest warriors; our most noble heroes; our most gifted scholars."
In Hearthstone

 "Hearthstone")This section contains information exclusive to Hearthstone "Hearthstone (game)") and is considered non-canon.

Varian as a legendary card for the warrior class in The Grand Tournament expansion for Hearthstone "Hearthstone (game)"). His flavor text reads: Leader of the Alliance! Father of Anduin! Also he likes to play Arena, and he averages 12 wins.
He reappears in the United in Stormwind expansion as Varian, King of Stormwind, whose flavor text reads: Man, this guy is so cool. Sure hope nothing happens to him.
He appears as an epic Protector mercenary in the Mercenaries game mode.
Lo'Gosh, Blood Fighter alongside Broll and Valeera appear as Fabled legendary warrior minion in the Across the Timeways expansion. His flavor text reads: In the Crimson Ring they call him Lo'gosh, the Ghost Wolf. He's forgotten the time when he was called by another name: Varian Wrynn, King of Stormwind. The three also appear on the For Glory! common spell. Its flavor text reads: It turns out they WERE entertained. This is based on the famous line uttered in Gladiator.
Notes and trivia

Varian's generic name in Krasarang Wilds is 7th Legion Champion.
As of Cataclysm, Varian was one of the four surviving Alliance rulers from the Second War, the others being Gelbin Mekkatorque, Kurdran Wildhammer and Genn Greymane; King Terenas of Lordaeron, King Thoras Trollbane of Stromgarde, Admiral Proudmoore of Kul Tiras, Lord Perenolde of Alterac, Antonidas of Dalaran, King Anasterian Sunstrider of Quel'Thalas and King Magni Bronzebeard of Ironforge have all died (all murdered with the exception of Perenolde, died in prison; and Magni, petrified during a ritual and presumed deceased at the time) in the interim.
The statistics in Lands of Conflict for Anduin Wrynn actually refer to King Varian Wrynn.
Many fans jokingly comment about Varian's larger than average chin. This has led to the nickname, "King Chin".
In Edge of Night, one of Sylvanas' visions of the future was Varian, who standing on one of the two zeppelin towers near Brill, instructing his generals on how to assault the Undercity. This shows that if Sylvanas never accepted the val'kyr's plea and returned to her people then the Alliance would have eventually conquered the Undercity.
 can be fished from the Dalaran fountain.
Varian appears in Snow Fight, a children's book written by Chris Metzen and illustrated by Wei Wang.
Varian and Anduin briefly appear in  \[30-35\] Gods and Monsters), a story told by Lorewalker Cho.
In The Comic, Varian called Garona Halforcen a bitch, first to use the word, followed by Garrosh Hellscream.
Varian Wrynn is an Alliance hero featured as Lo'Gosh in DC Unlimited's World of Warcraft: Series 5 action figure set.

  - In World of Warcraft: The Magazine Volume I Issue III, the DC catalog description reads: "Known today as Varian Wrynn, Lo'Gosh is the son of King Llane Wrynn and is the reigning king of Stormwind. During a brief gladiatorial stint in the depths of Dire Maul, he was temporarily named Lo'Gosh (Orcish for "Ghost Wolf") by the orcs that held him."
Character development

Varian's name was originally Varien. It was later retconned to Varian. When spelled with an "a", there is the implication that Varian was named after his grandmother, Queen Varia.

  - Alternatively, his name possibly is taken from "valiance" - great courage or determination.
King Varian Wrynn was one of only two NPCs that retained  after the WotLK beta, prior to Cataclysm.
Chris Metzen said he provided Varian's voice at BlizzCon 2009. Jon St. John (the voice of Duke Nukem) mentioned playing King Varian in a 2010 interview. In 2012, Metzen acknowledged that he voiced Varian in the Landfall patch.
Varian was initially described as having brown eyes, but he was later depicted as having blue.
King Varian Wrynn was one of the first racial leaders to have a completely unique model. He shared this distinction at first with Velen and Sylvanas Windrunner, in that while their base models and animations were identical to that of a human, draenei, and blood elf respectively, they had unique traits unavailable to players—among them being unique hairstyles, armor, and facial features. Garrosh Hellscream, Tyrande Whisperwind, and Malfurion Stormrage joined this list during Cataclysm. It would later become commonplace for racial leaders to have unique models.

  - He was also the fourth significant character to have a full set of quotes (greetings, annoyed, and farewell). The others before him were the Lich King, Tirion Fordring, and Darion Mograine.
An unused NPC representing Varian is situated in the same ID range as other legendary warriors presumably meant to appear in Skyhold. He and most of these NPCs didn't make it out of the Legion alpha stage.
Chris Metzen had been thinking of having Varian "go out like a champ" for years. Alex Afrasiabi and him decided Legion would be the right moment.
Misc. character information

As a boy, Varian hated winter.
He sent .
Mathias Shaw described Varian as a difficult King to serve, but remarkable.
Varian Wrynn's impaled body can be seen in the Stormwind Harbor of the Realm of Y'Shaarj.
Varian was born 10 years BDP which makes him 42 years old at the time of his death on the Broken Shore.
Laurena preaches that King Varian and Queen Tiffin are together in death.
At some point he was trained by Hjalmar Anvilmar who taught him the "Anvilmar feint", a dwarf combat stance.
Since he lived a remarkable and dangerous life, his trials made for rousing tales that bards could sing before swooning ladies.
Fort Wrynn, the main Alliance base in Talador, and Wrynn's Vanguard, the Alliance forces in Ashran, are both named after him.
There is a group named after him, Wrynn's Raiders.
According to Robby Flay, Varian's favorite drink is apple cider. Some of his favorite foods are fresh catfish and fresh crab legs.
Chi-Ji tended to call Varian "wolf".
  - Likewise, Anduin's comic is called Son of the Wolf.
It seems his  was taken as a trophy by Gul'dan "Gul'dan (alternate universe)") after his death at the Broken Shore, and  also remained from his body.
Cultural references

Varian's rise (or re-rise) to power is very similar to that of Conan, who started off as a simple pit fighter to eventually rise to becoming King. Given Varian's temperament, fighting ability, and appearance the similarities are striking.
In other Blizzard games

Varian is a playable character in Heroes of the Storm.

  - In all four tints of his Master palette in said game, his ponytail matches the tints, and he has a full helm similar to the one his father "Llane Wrynn (film universe)") wore in the movie.
  - In the aforementioned game, Varian claims that he has all the perfect warrior attacks and none of the stance restrictions that might make Thargas jealous.
Varian appears as a skin in Diablo IV.
Alternate timelines

A version of Varian Wrynn "Varian Wrynn (alternate universe)") exists in a timeway where history turned out completely different and which was entered by Thrall during the Cataclysm era.

In another timeline, King Varian Wrynn was killed and his young son succeeded him as the King.

Varian Wrynn "Varian Wrynn (film universe)") from a separate timeline appears in the Warcraft film universe.
Gallery

World of Warcraft



Varian imprisoned on Alcaz Island prior to patch 1.9.0.



Varian's appearance during the Wrath of the Lich King beta build 8905.



Varian's unique model since patch 3.0.2.



Varian battling the Kor'kron in Kor'kron Barracks.



Varian in the Secrets of Ulduar trailer.



Varian riding a lion in A Little Patience.



Anduin and Varian in Cho's story.



Varian, Jaina, and Vereesa preparing to make landfall.



Amber Kearnen, Taylor, Varian, Jaina, and Troteman in Kor'kron Barracks.



Jaina urging Varian to dismantle the Horde.



Poster of Varian Wrynn on Warchief's Command Board.



Varian's statue outside Stormwind Keep.

Art and concepts



Varian in the Death Knight "Death Knight (manga)") manga.



Varian and Sylvanas on the Broken Shore.



Varian and Anduin returning to Stormwind after the death of Onyxia.



Varian and Sylvanas on the Broken Isles loading screen.



On art on the bottom.



King Varian leading the Stormwind Army.



Varian portrait for Legion by cinematic artist Steve Hui.



Concept art for Varian Wrynn by Jon Buran.

The Comic



Varian without his scars.



Varian holding his wife Tiffin as she dies.



An amnesiac Varian Wrynn, as seen at the beginning of Issue #1.

.jpg "Lo'Gosh the gladiator, wearing the belt of Anduin Lothar.")

Lo'Gosh the gladiator, wearing the belt of Anduin Lothar.



Lo'Gosh in combat.



Facing off against Hyku Steeledge.

.jpg "Lo'Gosh takes on Two-Heads at Dire Maul.")

Lo'Gosh takes on Two-Heads at Dire Maul.



Lo'Gosh becomes a Crimson Ring Champion.



On a comic book cover as Lo'Gosh.

.jpg "Lo'Gosh versus Magatha's Cave Elemental.")

Lo'Gosh versus Magatha's Cave Elemental.



On the right of a comic book cover as Lo'Gosh.



Lo'Gosh fights various races of the Horde.



Lo'Gosh fights the green dragon connected to the Idol of Remulos.



Lo'Gosh with Jaina Proudmoore and Aegwynn.



Lo'Gosh squares off against a naga.



Lo'Gosh and Varian.



Varian and Lo'Gosh.



Varian restored and wielding Shalamayne.



Varian decapitates Onyxia..



Varian and Thargas bid farewell after defeating Onyxia.



Varian meets Thrall.



Varian holding Thrall at sword point.



The King in deep thought.

Hearthstone "Hearthstone (game)")



Lo'Gosh, Blood Fighter

.")

Lo'Gosh, Blood Fighter (signature version).



For Glory!



Lo'Gosh's Last Stand

Trading Card Game



Lo'Gosh "Lo'Gosh (Blood of Gladiators)")



King Varian Wrynn "King Varian Wrynn (Scourgewar)")



On the Worldbreaker "Worldbreaker (TCG)") TCG expansion art.



Varian seated upon his throne alongside his son.

Heroes of the Storm



Varian Wrynn.



Modified art from Heroes of the Storm.



Varian, High King of the Alliance.



Commandant Varian.

.")

Lionheart Varian (formerly Master Varian).



Lo'Gosh Varian.



Grand Marshal Varian.



Varian Footman.



Varian Stromgarde Footman.



In the cinematic trailer Forged by Fire.

Other



Official action figure.



King Varian's official Alliance gold coin.



Varian in Snow Fight.



Varian in Snow Fight.



Art of a canceled product called Clash of Champions.



On the Ultimate Visual Guide cover art.



Varian in Diablo IV

Fan art



Varian battles a dragon, by Kim Tae Kyeon.



Varian fighting Deathwing in his human form, alongside Garrosh.



Fan art of Varian at an imagined Ulduar council.



Varian Wrynn in crossover by Liang Xing.



Varian during the Battle for Broken Shore by Thomas Karlsson. This piece was featured in the first episode of The Fine Art of Fan Art.
Videos

Load video

Video Link

Video Link might collect personal data.

ContinueDismiss

Mists of Pandaria - Ingame Cinematic - Alliance Cinematic
Hellscream's Downfall (Alliance)
Hellscream's Downfall (Horde)
Garrison (Alliance)
World of Warcraft: Legion Cinematic Trailer
Battle for the Broken Shore finale (Alliance)
Anduin's Ascension
Anduin Raid Finale
Patch changes

Patch 7.0.3 (2016-07-19): Removed from Stormwind Keep.

Patch 6.0.2 (2014-10-14): Updated for level 100.

Patch 5.0.4 (2012-08-28): Updated for level 90.

Patch 4.0.3a (2010-11-23): Updated for level 85. Moved to the back of Stormwind Keep with his son.

Patch 3.2.0 (2009-08-04): Received unique voiced dialogue.

Patch 3.0.2 (2008-10-14): Re-added to the game, new model.

Patch 1.9.0 (2006-01-03): Removed from the dungeons beneath Alcaz Island.
See also





Lo'Gosh), TCG card
King Varian Wrynn), TCG card
References

^ Warcraft Lore/Varian Wrynn
^ The Characters of Warcraft/Varian Wrynn
^ Anduin: Son of the Wolf
^ Before the Storm, chapter 1 & 3
^ abcArthas: Rise of the Lich King, pg. 25
^ Blizzard Entertainment:World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King
^ Wolfheart, chapter 29, pg. 684: "And whoever they were, wherever they came from, Varian Wrynn, scion of the wolf Ancient, would be there to guide them."
^ \[10-45\] The Battle for Broken Shore)
^ abTraveler: The Shining Blade
^ World of Warcraft: Legion opening cinematic
^ abChapter IV: Alliance And Horde - Story - WoW - World of Warcraft
^ Cataclysm human intro
^ Races of World of Warcraft - Human
^ The Impending Cataclysm
^ Loreology on Twitter (dead link)
^ abcdWorld of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 136
^ abWolfheart, chapter 22
^ abcdefghijkWorld of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 13: Flashback
^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 152
^ Arthas: Rise of the Lich King, pg. 56
^ Scourge Invasion (Stormwind) "Scourge Invasion (Stormwind)")
^ Beyond the Dark Portal (Year 8): Varian, the recently crowned young king of Stormwind...
^ Beyond the Dark Portal, pg. 21
^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 177
^ Beyond the Dark Portal, pg. 27-28
^
^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 36
^ Wolfheart, chapter 15
^ Traveler: The Spiral Path
^ \[15-30\] Survey Alcaz Island
^
^ World of Warcraft: Game Manual
^ \[54\] The True Masters)
^ \[37\] Warn Bolvar!
^ abWorld of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 1: Stranger in a Strange Land "Stranger in a Strange Land (comic)")
^ abcWorld of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 2: Killing Ground
^ abcdWorld of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 3: Destiny Awaits!
^ World of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 4: Balancing the Scales "Balancing the Scales (comic)")
^ abcdWorld of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 6: Blood "Blood (comic)")
^ abcWorld of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 7: Revelations "Revelations (comic)")
^ abcdWorld of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 8: The Return
^ abWorld of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 9: Through the Mirror Darkly
^ abWorld of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 10: Last of the Line
^ abcdefWorld of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 11: Descent
^ abcdWorld of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 12: The Enemy Revealed
^ abcdefWorld of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 14: Into the Jaws of Death!
^ abWorld of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 15: Conflicting Loyalties
^ World of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 16: Threat!
^ World of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 17: Gathering Thunder!
^ abcWorld of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 18: Showdown!
^ Death Knight "Death Knight (manga)")
^ \[8-30\] Where Kings Walk
^ Secrets of Ulduar trailer
^ Stormrage
^ \[80\] Warn King Wrynn
^ abThe Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm
^ Wolfheart
^ abcdeBlood of Our Fathers
^ abCataclysm Expansion Features/Faces of Cataclysm#King Varian Wrynn
^ \[5-30\] Rise of the Brotherhood
^ \[5-30\] Return to Sentinel Hill
^ \[15-30\] The Battle for Andorhal)
^ \[15-30\] Aradne)
^ \[84\] My Son, the Prince
^ \[84\] Rallying the Fleet
^ \[84\] A Villain Unmasked
^ \[30-35\] Twilight Shores)
^ \[30-35\] Twilight Shores)
^ \[45\] A Found Memento
^ \[10-35\] The King's Command
^ \[15-35\] A King Among Men
^ \[15-35\] Lion's Landing)
^ \[15-35\] A Little Patience)
^ \[15-35\] Heart Of The Alliance
^ \[15-35\] The Kirin Tor)
^ \[15-35\] What Had To Be Done
^ \[15-35\] The Silence
^ \[90\] A Little Field Work
^ \[90\] Gathering Intelligence
^ \[90\] The Darkspear Rebellion)
^ \[90\] Vol'jin of the Darkspear)
^ ab \[90\] Battlefield: Barrens)
^ abWar Crimes
^ Lords of War
^ Patch 6.0.2: The Iron Tide Crashes into Azeroth
^ \[10-40\] For the Alliance!)
^
^ \[40\] My Very Own Castle
^ \[40\] We Need a Shipwright)
^ World of Warcraft: Sylvanas, chapter 24
^ \[10-45\] The Battle for Broken Shore)
^ \[10-45\] The Fallen Lion
^ ab \[45\] The King's Path
^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 4, pg. 118
^ abWorld of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 4, pg. 214
^ Anduin Raid Finale#Cinematic "Anduin Wrynn (tactics)")
^ \[70G3 Daily\] Time-Lost Trio
^ Wolfheart
^ World of Warcraft: Mists of Pandaria
^ The Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm, chapter 6
^ World of Warcraft: Ultimate Visual Guide, pg. 71
^ Beyond the Dark Portal
^ Arthas: Rise of the Lich King, pg. 25
^ World of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 21: \[\[Secrets (comic)\|\]\], pg. 26
^ Wolfheart, chapter 29: To Forge a Future
^ World of Warcraft Trading Card Game: Scourgewar. Blizzard Entertainment. 144: King Varian Wrynn "King Varian Wrynn (Scourgewar)").
^ \[60R\] Order Must Be Restored
^ World of Warcraft: The Magazine Volume I Issue III, pg. 101
^ Warcraft II: Beyond the Dark Portal manual, The Aftermath of the Second War
^ Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos manual, The Alliance Splinters
^ Chris Metzen (2009). Blizzcon Panel. BlizzCon 2009. YouTube. Retrieved on 2009-12-29.
^ Jon St. John (2010). "The Voice of Duke Nukem" Jon St. John Interview. PAX 2010. G4. Retrieved on 2010-10-28.
^ Chris Metzen (2012). Chris Metzen on Twitter. Twitter. Retrieved on 2012-11-02.​ “ @MatthewWRossi @ChrisMetzen Just heard some of your voice work from patch 5.1 - you're doing a really good job on Varian. Thank you! :)”
^ Tides of Darkness, first prologue
^ abArthas: Rise of the Lich King, chapter 1, pg. 40
^ Chris Metzen on Twitter \- "Hi Chris, may I ask how you personally felt about Varian dying at the start of Legion? Was he a character you enjoyed voicing?"

     \- "honestly I had been thinking it for years. I knew he'd go out like a champ one day. Alex and I decided Legion was it."
^ abWorld of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: The Eastern Kingdoms, pg. 19
^ World of Warcraft: The Comic, Volume: ??
^ Wolfheart, chapter 11
^ A Little Patience
^ Thrall: Twilight of the Aspects
^ Micky Neilson on Twitter (2015-07-12). Retrieved on 2016-06-29.​ “@MickyNeilson Will the Warcraft movie become "canon" lore, or is it like a parallel universe like WoD? except no interaction between the two" "@Zerde3 Separate.”
External links

| Varian Wrynn | Generic name |
| --- | --- |
| - Wowhead<br>- WoWDB | - Wowhead<br>- WoWDB |

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Preceded by:<br>Terenas Menethil II | Position:<br>High King of the Alliance | Succeeded by:<br>Anduin Wrynn |

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Preceded by:<br>Llane Wrynn I<br>(as King) | Position:<br>Ruler of Stormwind "Stormwind (kingdom)")<br>(as King under regency of<br>Anduin Lothar) | Succeeded by:<br>Varian Wrynn<br>(as King) |

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Preceded by:<br>Varian Wrynn<br>(as King under regency of<br>Anduin Lothar) | Position:<br>Ruler of Stormwind "Stormwind (kingdom)")<br>(as King) | Succeeded by:<br>Anduin Wrynn<br>(as King under regency<br>of Bolvar Fordragon) |

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Preceded by:<br>Anduin Wrynn<br>(as King under regency<br>of Bolvar Fordragon) | Position:<br>Ruler of Stormwind "Stormwind (kingdom)")<br>(as King) | Succeeded by:<br>Anduin Wrynn |

| | Collapse<br>Alliance |
| --- |
|  |
| | Expand<br>Leadership |
| --- |
|  |
| High King | - Anduin Wrynn |
|  |
| Lord Commander | - Turalyon |
|  |
| Leaders | - Council of Three Hammers <br>  - Muradin Bronzebeard<br>  - Falstad Wildhammer<br>  - Moira Thaurissan<br>- Gelbin Mekkatorque<br>- Shandris Feathermoon<br>- Velen<br>- Tess Greymane<br>- Aysa Cloudsinger<br>- Alleria Windrunner<br>- Umbric<br>- Fareeya<br>- Jaina Proudmoore<br>- Azurathel | |
|  |
| | Expand<br>Characters |
| --- |
|  |
| Current | - Dagran Thaurissan II<br>- Danath Trollbane<br>- Darius Crowley<br>- Khadgar<br>- Kurdran Wildhammer<br>- Magni Bronzebeard<br>- Tyrande Whisperwind<br>- Malfurion Stormrage<br>- Genn Greymane<br>- Halford Wyrmbane<br>- Catherine Rogers<br>- Gryan Stoutmantle<br>- John J. Keeshan<br>- Mathias Shaw<br>- Tyrathan Khort<br>- Brann Bronzebeard<br>- Grayson Shadowbreaker<br>- Gustaf VanHowzen<br>- Vindicator Boros<br>- Sarah Ladimore<br>- Morgan<br>- Vanndar Stormpike<br>- Jes-Tereth<br>- Lusshan<br>- Nobundo<br>- Vereesa Windrunner<br>- Velog Icebellow<br>- Ivar Bloodfang<br>- Modera<br>- Vargoth<br>- Karlain<br>- Ansirem Runeweaver<br>- Harrison Jones<br>- Maiev Shadowsong<br>- Thassarian<br>- Muninn Magellas<br>- Thargas Anvilmar<br>- Highlord Leoric Von Zeldig<br>- Nevin Twistwrench<br>- Razak Ironsides<br>- Jarod Shadowsong<br>- Ishanah<br>- Amaan the Wise<br>- Broll Bearmantle<br>- Lorna Crowley<br>- Mordent Evenshade<br>- Arechron<br>- Rivern Frostwind<br>- Bizmo<br>- Radulf Leder<br>- Su'ura Swiftarrow<br>- Cordressa Briarbow<br>- Marcus Johnson<br>- Henry Maleb<br>- Jorad Mace<br>- Weldon Barov<br>- Celestine of the Harvest<br>- Julianne Tremblade<br>- Marin Bladewing<br>- Arator Windrunner<br>- T'paartos<br>- Thisalee Crow<br>- Lucille Waycrest<br>- Pike<br>- Taelia Fordragon<br>- Katherine Proudmoore<br>- Brannon Stormsong<br>- Tandred Proudmoore<br>- Erazmin<br>- Arzaal |
|  |
| Former | - Varian Wrynn<br>- Taylor<br>- Twinbraid<br>- Maraad<br>- Fandral Staghelm<br>- Bolvar Fordragon<br>- Benedictus<br>- Marran Trollbane<br>- Marcus Jonathan<br>- Althea Ebonlocke<br>- Iridi<br>- Blademaster Telaamon<br>- Kalecgos |
|  |
| Historical | - Daelin Proudmoore<br>- Anduin Lothar<br>- Antonidas<br>- Terenas Menethil II<br>- Arthas Menethil<br>- Uther the Lightbringer<br>- Alexandros Mograine<br>- Othmar Garithos<br>- Thoras Trollbane<br>- Alonsus Faol<br>- Anasterian Sunstrider<br>- Sylvanas Windrunner<br>- Aiden Perenolde | |
|  |
| | Expand<br>Races |
| --- |
|  |
| Core | - Human<br>- Dwarf<br>- Gnome<br>- Night elf<br>- Draenei<br>- Worgen<br>- Pandaren<br>- Dracthyr |
|  |
| Allied | - Void elf<br>- Lightforged draenei<br>- Dark Iron dwarf<br>- Kul Tiran human<br>- Mechagnome<br>- Earthen<br>- Haranir |
|  |
| Other | - Ancient<br>- Cenarion<br>- Dwarf <br>  - Wildhammer<br>  - Frost<br>- Eredar <br>  - Broken<br>  - Man'ari eredar<br>- Faerie dragon<br>- Furbolg<br>- Half-elf<br>- Highborne<br>- High elf<br>- Jinyu <br>  - Ankoan<br>- Darkfallen |
|  |
| Animals | - Horse<br>- Gryphon<br>- Ram<br>- Hippogryph<br>- Saber cat<br>- Elekk<br>- Talbuk<br>- Dragon turtle<br>- Hawkstrider<br>- Dragonhawk<br>- Unicorn<br>- Core hound<br>- Bear<br>- Giant eagle<br>- Vorquin | |
|  |
| | Expand<br>Cities and towns |
| --- |
|  |
| Capital cities | - Stormwind City<br>- Ironforge<br>- Bel'ameth<br>- Gnomeregan<br>- The Exodar<br>- Gilneas City<br>- Telogrus Rift<br>- The Vindicaar<br>- Shadowforge City<br>- Boralus<br>- Mechagon City |
|  |
| Eastern Kingdoms | - Aerie Peak<br>- Chillwind Camp<br>- Darkshire<br>- Dragon's Mouth<br>- Dun Modr<br>- Eastvale Logging Camp<br>- Farstrider Lodge<br>- Fort Livingston<br>- Goldshire<br>- Greenwarden's Grove<br>- Harborage<br>- Highbank<br>- Kharanos<br>- Kirthaven<br>- Lakeshire<br>- Marshtide Watch<br>- Menethil Harbor<br>- Moonbrook<br>- Morgan's Vigil<br>- New Tinkertown<br>- Quel'Danil Lodge<br>- Refuge Pointe<br>- Sentinel Hill<br>- Southshore<br>- Stromgarde Keep<br>- Surwich<br>- Thelsamar<br>- Victor's Point |
|  |
| Kalimdor | - Astranaar<br>- Azure Watch<br>- Blood Watch<br>- Farwatcher's Glen<br>- Feathermoon Stronghold<br>- Forest Song<br>- Fort Triumph<br>- Honor's Stand<br>- Northwatch Hold<br>- Talonbranch Glade<br>- Thal'darah Overlook |
|  |
| Outland | - Allerian Stronghold<br>- Honor Hold<br>- Orebor Harborage<br>- Sylvanaar<br>- Telaar<br>- Toshley's Station<br>- Temple of Telhamat<br>- Wildhammer Stronghold |
|  |
| Northrend | - Amberpine Lodge<br>- Fizzcrank Airstrip<br>- Fordragon Hold<br>- Fort Wildervar<br>- Frosthold<br>- Valgarde<br>- Valiance Keep<br>- Westfall Brigade Encampment<br>- Westguard Keep<br>- Wintergarde Keep |
|  |
| Pandaria | - Incursion<br>- Lion's Landing<br>- Paw'don Village<br>- Pearlfin Village<br>- Shrine of Seven Stars<br>- Westwind Rest |
|  |
| Draenor "Draenor (alternate universe)") | - Fort Wrynn<br>- Highpass<br>- Lion's Watch<br>- Lunarfall<br>- Southport<br>- Stormshield<br>- Telaari Station |
|  |
| Broken Isles | - Greywatch |
|  |
| Kul Tiras | - Anglepoint Wharf<br>- Arom's Stand<br>- Brennadam<br>- Bridgeport<br>- Deadwash<br>- Falconhurst<br>- Fallhaven<br>- Fletcher's Hollow<br>- Fort Daelin<br>- Hatherford<br>- Millstone Hamlet<br>- Norwington Estate<br>- Sagehold |
|  |
| Zandalar | - Fort Victory<br>- Shatterstone Harbor |
|  |
| Dragon Isles | - Amirdrassil |
|  |
| Former | - Admiral Taylor's Garrison<br>- Bashal'Aran<br>- Darnassus<br>- Firebeard's Patrol<br>- Fort Triumph<br>- Hillsbrad Fields<br>- Kirin'Var Village<br>- Lor'danel<br>- Nethergarde Keep<br>- Stonewatch<br>- Theramore Isle |
|  |
| Territories | - Azuremyst Isles <br>  - Azuremyst Isle<br>  - Bloodmyst Isle<br>- Dun Morogh<br>- Duskwood<br>- Elwynn Forest<br>- Gilneas<br>- Loch Modan<br>- Redridge Mountains<br>- Wetlands<br>- Westfall | |
|  |
| | Expand<br>Organizations |
| --- |
|  |
| Alliance forces | - Alliance High Command<br>- Alliance army<br>- Alliance navy <br>  - Alliance Naval Command<br>  - Third Fleet<br>  - North Fleet<br>- Alliance air force<br>- Alliance Vanguard <br>  - Valiance Expedition<br>- Alliance Forces "Alliance Forces (Warcraft III)")<br>- 7th Legion <br>  - 7th Fleet<br>- Operation: Shieldwall<br>- Wrynn's Vanguard |
|  |
| Kingdom of Stormwind "Stormwind (kingdom)") | - Court of Stormwind<br>- House of Nobles<br>- SI:7<br>- Stormwind Fleet<br>- Stormwind Army <br>  - Stormwind Guard<br>  - Stormwind City Guard <br>    - Stormwind Harbor Guards<br>  - Stormwind Royal Guard<br>  - Stormwind Elite Aquatic and Land Forces<br>  - Westfall Brigade<br>  - Bravo Company<br>- Stormwind Assassin's Guild<br>- Night Watch<br>- Nijel's Point Guard<br>- Breadbasket Guild |
|  |
| Kingdom of Ironforge "Ironforge (kingdom)") | - Senate of Ironforge<br>- Wildhammer clan<br>- Dark Iron clan <br>  - Forgeguard<br>  - Dark Iron Demolishers<br>  - Shadowforge clan<br>- Bronzebeard clan<br>- Stormpike clan <br>  - Stormpike Guard<br>- Explorers' League <br>  - Bael'dun<br>- Ironforge Guard<br>- Ironforge 127th Paratroopers<br>- Ironforge Siege Brigade<br>- Ironforge Brigade<br>- Miners' League<br>- Royal Stonecutters Union<br>- Hidden Circle |
|  |
| Nation of Darnassus "Darnassus (nation)") | - Darnassian Army <br>  - Sentinels <br>    - Silverwing Sentinels<br>    - Sentinel spies<br>  - Kaldorei Fleet<br>  - Army of the Black Moon<br>  - Darnassian City Guard<br>- Sisterhood of Elune<br>- Wintersaber Trainers<br>- Watchers<br>- Auberdine Village Council<br>- Council of the Forest<br>- Circle of Ancients |
|  |
| Kingdom of Gnomeregan "Gnomeregan (kingdom)") | - Gnomeregan Army <br>  - A.C.E.<br>  - G.E.A.R.<br>  - S.A.F.E.<br>  - Gnomeregan Airmen<br>- Gnomeregan Covert Ops<br>- Razak's Roughriders |
|  |
| Exodar draenei "Exodar (nation)") | - Hand of Argus <br>  - Triumvirate of the Hand<br>  - Defenders of Blood Watch<br>- Auchenai<br>- Rangari<br>- Artificers<br>- Order of Light<br>- Omenai<br>- Light's Chosen<br>- Augari<br>- Penitents |
|  |
| Kingdom of Gilneas "Gilneas (kingdom)") | - Gilnean military <br>  - Gilnean navy<br>  - Gilnean Royal Guard<br>  - Gilneas Liberation Front <br>    - Refugee Leadership<br>  - Gilneas Brigade<br>- Bloodfang Pack<br>- Wolfpack |
|  |
| Admiralty of Kul Tiras "Kul Tiras (kingdom)") | - Kul Tiran fleet<br>- House Proudmoore <br>  - Proudmoore Admiralty<br>  - Proudmoore Battalion<br>  - Admiral's Elite Guard<br>  - Proudmoore Guard<br>- House Waycrest <br>  - Waycrest Guard<br>  - Order of Embers<br>- Norwington<br>- Roughnecks<br>- House Stormsong <br>  - Tidesages<br>- Boralus Guard<br>- Outriggers<br>- Storm's Wake <br>  - Tideguard |
|  |
| Kingdom of Stromgarde "Stromgarde (kingdom)") | - Stromic army <br>  - League of Arathor<br>  - Stromgarde Militia<br>  - Stromgarde Brigade |
|  |
| Other members | - Tushui Pandaren<br>- Army of the Light <br>  - Lightveil<br>- The Ren'dorei "Ren'dorei (organization)") <br>  - Riftrunners<br>  - Riftwalkers<br>  - Riftwardens<br>- Obsidian Warders<br>- Alliance Trauma<br>- Church of the Holy Light <br>  - Brotherhood of Northshire<br>  - Knights of the Silver Hand<br>- Morgan's Militia<br>- Highvale<br>- Northwatch Expeditionary Unit<br>- Sons of Lothar <br>  - Honor Hold<br>- Kurenai<br>- Frostborn<br>- Valiance Expedition <br>  - Unit S<br>  - Unit Darkshire<br>  - Unit Goldshire<br>- Silver Covenant<br>- Kirin Tor Offensive<br>- Shen'dralar Highborne<br>- Tol Barad <br>  - Baradin's Wardens<br>- Pearlfin Jinyu<br>- Bizmo's Brawlpub<br>- Nethergarde<br>- Light's Vengeance "Light's Vengeance (island expedition)")<br>- Auric's Angels<br>- Briona's Buccaneers<br>- Purified<br>- Waveblade Ankoan<br>- Grumbol's Hammers |
|  |
| Former members | - Magocracy of Dalaran "Dalaran (kingdom)") <br>  - Kirin Tor<br>- Theramore "Theramore (nation)") <br>  - Theramore Guard <br>    - Elite Guard<br>- Kingdom of Lordaeron "Lordaeron (kingdom)") <br>  - Lordaeron army<br>  - Lordaeron Navy<br>  - 1st Legion<br>- Kingdom of Quel'Thalas "Quel'Thalas (kingdom)") <br>  - Thalassian navy<br>- Kingdom of Alterac "Alterac (kingdom)") |
|  |
| Alliance-aligned and allies | - Council of Exarchs "Council of Exarchs (alternate universe)") <br>  - Hand of the Prophet<br>  - Artificers "Artificers (alternate universe)")<br>  - Auchenai "Auchenai (alternate universe)")<br>  - Rangari "Rangari (alternate universe)")<br>  - Vindicators "Vindicators (alternate universe)")<br>  - Sha'tari Defense<br>- Stillpine tribe |
|  |
| Former allies | - Blackmaw tribe<br>- Blackwood tribe<br>- Grimtotem tribe<br>- Scarlet renegades | |
|  |
| - Common "Common (language)")<br>- Alliance organizations<br>- Alliance technology<br>- Alliance territories | |

Retrieved from " https://warcraft.wiki.gg/wiki/Varian\_Wrynn?oldid=6858130"

Categories:

Alliance characters
Articles to clean up
Human characters
Projections
Warrior characters
Gladiators
Aristocrats
Stormwind (kingdom) "Category:Stormwind (kingdom)")
Alliance
Quest givers
Trial of the Crusader NPCs
Removed Dustwallow Marsh NPCs
Removed Stormwind City NPCs
City bosses
Argent Tournament NPCs
Icecrown Citadel NPCs
Removed Zul'Farrak NPCs
Removed Ruins of Ahn'Qiraj NPCs
Removed Tirisfal Glades NPCs
Removed Undercity NPCs
Krasarang Wilds NPCs
Shrine of Seven Stars NPCs
A Little Patience
Blood in the Snow
Siege of Orgrimmar NPCs
Lunarfall NPCs
Thros, the Blighted Lands NPCs
Battle for Broken Shore
Borean Tundra objects
Tides of Darkness characters
World of Warcraft: The Comic characters
Beyond the Dark Portal characters
Arthas: Rise of the Lich King characters
World of Warcraft: Death Knight characters
Stormrage characters
The Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm characters
Wolfheart characters
Leaders of Azeroth characters
Jaina Proudmoore: Tides of War characters
War Crimes characters
Savage World characters
Unique models
Unique voices
Action figures
Hearthstone legendary cards
Hearthstone heroes
Heroes of the Storm characters
Deceased characters
Traveler characters
Before the Storm characters
A Good War characters
Shadows Rising characters
World of Warcraft: Sylvanas characters
The Calling

Hidden category:

Pages using deprecated location templates

Cookies help us deliver our services. By using our services, you agree to our use of cookies.

More informationOK