“There will be peace. One day.”

— Anduin Wrynn

Anduin Llane Wrynn is the King of Stormwind "Stormwind (kingdom)"), High King of the Alliance, and commander of all Alliance forces. The son of King Varian Wrynn and Queen Tiffin Ellerian Wrynn, Anduin was named after two venerated figures of Stormwind history: his grandfather King Llane Wrynn and the legendary Sir Anduin Lothar. As of Dragonflight, Anduin is 25 years old.

Under the regency of Bolvar Fordragon and the advice of Lady Katrana Prestor, Anduin was only a child when he ascended to the throne following his father's disappearance. In truth, however, Katrana was a disguise for the black dragon Onyxia, who had used her dark magic to split Varian in two. Before long, the two halves of the king met at Stormwind Keep and unmasked Lady Prestor, who kidnapped Anduin and brought him to her lair in retaliation. Despite the two Varians' differences, their shared love for Anduin allowed them to save him from Onyxia's clutches, eventually merging back into one man.

In the wake of the Cataclysm "Cataclysm (event)"), Anduin traveled to Ironforge as a diplomat, where he formed close ties with the dwarven ruler, King Magni Bronzebeard. After his bodyguard Aerin Stonehand and many citizens died in one of many earthquakes that began plaguing Khaz Modan, Anduin witnessed how Magni was transformed into diamond and was later taken hostage by Magni's estranged daughter, Moira Thaurissan, who took control of the city. When King Varian infiltrated Ironforge to end Moira's rule, Anduin convinced him to spare her life and instead install a Council of Three Hammers to govern the dwarf clans. In contrast to his decisive warrior father, Anduin is contemplative and diplomatic, and decided to pursue the path of a priest of the Church of the Holy Light, later beseeching the draenei leader Prophet Velen to accept him as a pupil.

When Anduin was shipwrecked on the mysterious continent of Pandaria, he refused to return home with the SI:7 and ventured throughout the long-forgotten continent. Studying under the August Celestial Chi-Ji the Red Crane, Anduin helped to combat the ancient threat of the sha and prevented Warchief Garrosh Hellscream from using the Divine Bell as a weapon, though he nearly lost his life in the process. While recovering, Anduin made an acquaintance in the form of the eccentric Black Prince, Wrathion. Eventually, Garrosh was overthrown in the Siege of Orgrimmar and put on trial in Pandaria, during which Anduin often visited the captive Hellscream in his cell, later saving his life after Vereesa Windrunner revealed that Garrosh's food was poisoned.

Years later, Stormwind tragically lost its king during the Battle for Broken Shore. In the face of the Burning Legion's onslaught, Anduin permanently assumed the throne of Stormwind and grew certain that lasting peace would not be achieved without bloodshed, and as he worked to save lives and fend off the demons' advance, he was forced to reconcile his yearning for peace with the necessity for war. In the wake of Legion's defeat, a global war with the Horde — now led by Warchief Sylvanas Windrunner — threatened everything that Anduin held dear. Though he led the armies of the Alliance across Azeroth, he remained dedicated to putting an end to the bloodshed, even if it meant getting his hands dirty.

Following the Battle at the Gates of Orgrimmar, Sylvanas abandoned the Horde and subsequently tore open a gateway into the Shadowlands, the realm of death, where her Mawsworn allies brought Anduin and other leaders of Azeroth into captivity in the Maw. Though the other captives were freed, Anduin remained a prisoner of the Banshee Queen and her ally, Zovaal the Jailer, and was ultimately subjugated by the latter's Domination magic and turned into a vessel forced to carry out his will. Zovaal used Anduin to devastating effect in order to come closer to achieving his goals, but with the help of Azeroth's heroes Anduin eventually managed to free himself from the Jailer's control. Afterward, he decided that he would not yet return to Azeroth as he needed more time to recover from his traumatic experiences.

After years of wandering around the world, Anduin was among those who heard the Radiant Song, and eventually joined the heroes of Azeroth to fight against Xal'atath and her forces on Khaz Algar. During his adventures, Anduin began to reconnect with the Light.

Anduin serves as one of the main protagonists in the Warcraft franchise.
Biography
Youth



Enlarge

Anduin with his parents Varian and Tiffin Wrynn.

During the time of renewed tranquility after the Second War, King Varian Wrynn was wed to a young, beautiful woman named Tiffin Ellerian in a pre-arranged marriage and in year 15 conceived a son, Anduin Llane Wrynn, named for Anduin Lothar and his grandfather Llane Wrynn. When Arthas Menethil visited Stormwind, he also met the recently born Anduin. Anduin gripped his finger. When he was a small boy, Anduin would sneak into the map room and play with figures representing soldiers. When he was three years old, he fell from a pony and nearly broke his arm. At one point, the young prince was nearly stabbed by an assassin who had snuck into Stormwind Keep, but he was saved by Varian. Anduin was taught to read by his servant Wyll Benton, who had served his father and grandfather before him. Having inherited Tiffin's blonde hair, Wyll remarked to his wife Elsie that Anduin was ‘a boy of sunshine.’

After the dust had settled from the Third War, Varian was asked to cooperate with Warchief Thrall. He hesitated but Anduin convinced him at least to go and hear the orc leader out despite Lady Katrana Prestor's objections. Varian journeyed to Theramore to speak with Lady Jaina Proudmoore regarding Horde/ Alliance relations.

After King Varian Wrynn went missing under suspicious circumstances while en route to a diplomatic summit to Theramore Isle, Stormwind was believed to be going through a state of disarray. At the behest of the royal councilor, Lady Prestor, young Anduin was given the crown so that order could be preserved within the kingdom of Stormwind. As wise a ruler as any ten-year-old has a right to be, few citizens were aware that their true king had been missing for so long, and Anduin did the best he could to allay their fears. It was widely held that the boy would grow to become a shrewd leader one day. Highlord Bolvar Fordragon acted as the Regent of Stormwind and the Supreme Commander of Stormwind's forces on behalf of King Anduin, with Lady Prestor advising Bolvar on the proper use of Stormwind's resources. The young king placed great importance on learning, and thus provided funds for making copies of various tomes and writings available to the public, an effort overseen by Donyal Tovald.
The Comic

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft manga or comics.
Return of the King



Enlarge

Prince Anduin in World of Warcraft: The Comic.

When Varian returned, a massive ceremony was held in Stormwind to welcome him home. However, the Varian that returned was arrogant, frivolous, and markedly interested in Katrana Prestor. The people of Stormwind had only been informed that the Defias had ransomed the king, a ransom paid with a painful new tax imposed by the House of Nobles. Upon his return, however, Varian seemed concerned only with spending more of his people's money, leaving affairs of state by the wayside. Anduin Wrynn was distressed by his father's change.

A few days later in Stormwind City, King Magni Bronzebeard was on a visit and was discussing war plans against the orcs and Dark Iron dwarves with King "Varian" and Bolvar Fordragon. However, Varian Wrynn was counseled by Lady Katrana Prestor to not send troops to help the dwarves fight against the dark irons. King Magni left disappointed in Varian's subservience to Lady Prestor's wishes and his dishonorable demeanor. While going to the Deeprun Tram, Magni was met by the young Prince Anduin Wrynn who told the dwarven king that he too suspected something was amiss about his "father".

Some time later, Anduin was practicing his archery with his "father" and asked Varian how he was kidnapped by the Defias. Anduin further questioned him how he later came into the hands of the naga for ransom, in reply to which his father told him that his past was a blank and he could not recall any events before his rescue. For Anduin's improvement in his archery, Varian granted him one reward. Anduin requested that the details of Varian's disappearance be further investigated.

Later Anduin, Varian, Bolvar, and Lady Prestor were riding horseback through the countryside outside Stormwind, with Anduin imploring his father to listen to Stormwind's problems. However, before Anduin could elaborate, his horse was purposely roused by an unknown assailant, causing Anduin to lose control and tumble over a ledge. Varian swiftly caught Anduin, but upon making physical contact, his mind was enveloped with a flashback of past events. Anduin, embracing his father, lost any doubts about him being an impostor. Varian started to tell Bolvar, Anduin, and Lady Prestor about his visions, until Lady Prestor touched him and remarked how astonished she was by his nobility. Bolvar surmised that Varian became befuddled when around her, losing his honor and respect for others. Bolvar became more anxious to discover the secrets of Varian's abduction and sudden return, knowing this would lead to trouble.

One day, a second Varian and his allies marched through the gates of Stormwind. Katrana Prestor hastily gathered soldiers only to have the first Varian tell her that she was disobeying the chain of command and was not in charge of Stormwind. Entering Stormwind Keep, the second Varian - known by the nickname Lo'Gosh - declared Katrana's masquerade was over and called her by her true name: Onyxia.



Enlarge

Anduin and King Varian Wrynn returning to Stormwind City after the death of Onyxia.

As Onyxia revealed her dragon form and transformed multiple guards into dragonspawn, Lo'Gosh and his allies began battle in the great hall of Stormwind Keep. The arrival of Highlord Bolvar Fordragon along with Anduin greatly aided them in securing the keep but Reginald Windsor was killed moments later by Onyxia. Anduin, surprised by seeing two Varians, urged them to stop fighting each other and face the true threat, the brood mother Onyxia. The great dragon snatched Anduin and teleported them to her lair; daring Varian to follow suit. Regrouping with their friends, the two Varians were left to grieve the loss of their son. Lo'Gosh told their friends and allies that the final battle would end in Onyxia's Lair.

Though imprisoned by Onyxia in her lair, Anduin was able to cut through his rope restraints and evade Onyxia's dragonkin guards. Using his wits, he bunkered down in a small crevice where Onyxia's pursuing dragon whelps wouldn't be able to reach him. He was able to evade capture until Varian and his reinforcements arrived. Onyxia held Anduin hostage, threatening to kill him if Varian didn't surrender Stormwind over to her. Anduin urged his father not to give in to her threats and Lo'Gosh agreed to fight and die with Anduin if need be. Lo'Gosh threw a knife at the dragon's claw to loosen her hold over Anduin. Anduin fell from a great height but was caught and saved by Broll Bearmantle, who had assumed his raven form to catch Anduin mid air. With Anduin's safety secured, the Stormwind army continued the battle.

Leading an assault against Onyxia, both Varians engaged her in battle. Weapons and magic clashed with her numerous dragonkin, with both sides determined to win. Becoming desperate to end the fight, Onyxia began casting the spell she was going to use on Alcaz Island to kill Lo'Gosh, but Lo'Gosh's double responded by stepping in front of the blast, saying he should die because Lo'Gosh was the embodiment of the true Varian. Not willing to sacrifice his double, Lo'Gosh leapt alongside his other self hoping to save him. The magic spell became disrupted by having the two Varians in the spell, and after a moment of silence Varian emerged, his two halves fused back together. Onyxia tried desperately to incinerate him, but Varian swiftly reached Onyxia's head and impaled her. With Onyxia dead, Varian reunited with his son and friends, telling them that their long and noble deeds would be rewarded and that Stormwind had been reborn with a new hope for the future.
Theramore peace summit

While returning to Theramore, Varian was asked by Jaina Proudmoore to meet with the orc Warchief Thrall so that they may discuss plans to ease tensions between the Horde and Alliance. Varian, however, was still wary of orcs for their role in Stormwind's destruction during the First War and didn't trust them to be true allies. Though he was content with just Stormwind and the Horde no longer being in a state of open war and reluctant to enforce such a peace, he was convinced by Anduin and Valeera Sanguinar to attend citing that a human-orc alliance may benefit Stormwind's prosperity. Anduin participated in the summit and was thus present when the Twilight's Hammer attacked the city. He encountered and was saved by Med'an.
Scourge Invasion



Enlarge

Anduin and his father Varian bonding over a hunt.

When the Scourge attacked Stormwind Varian and Bolvar went to defend the city. At first, Varian wanted to get Anduin to safety, but moments later, a Scourge soldier almost attacked Varian from behind and Anduin threw a dagger into him saving Varian's life. Bolvar then commanded Anduin to get atop a city tower and shoot the undead with his bow. Stormwind won the battle and Varian pronounced that Alliance forces led by Bolvar will strike into Northrend. Anduin was saddened by Bolvar's leaving and by the upcoming war. Varian then calmed Anduin by telling him that after the death of Lich King, there would be a world of peace.

During the war against the Lich King, Anduin could be found standing by his father's side in Stormwind Keep's throne room.
Stormrage

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.

Weeks after the Lich King was killed, Anduin became a victim of the Emerald Nightmare, suffering from his nightmares.
The Shattering

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.



Enlarge

Anduin and High Priest Rohan witnessing King Magni Bronzebeard's petrification.

For a long time, Anduin has longed for peace. He longs for a reprieve from the countless deaths and casualties taken from war and natural disasters. Unfortunately, this sometimes puts him at odds with his father's aggressive nature, which threatens to throw their kingdom into more conflict and war. Though Anduin is wary of Varian's violent outbursts, he understands that his father is a just man who wants to protect the Alliance's interests and that he needs compassion for the burdens he has to undertake to make the decisions of a leader. Burdens he realizes that he too will inherit some day. He took Bolvar's death very hard.

Although his archery and dagger throwing skills are superb, Anduin has no talent for martial training or handling heavy weapons, unlike his father. Despite this, Varian wants for him to become a warrior. Anduin follows a pacifist philosophy and is more compassionate and understanding; concerned more with the preservation of life. Though not considered weak by his father, he is considered soft. King Varian allows him to spend more time in Theramore under the guidance of Jaina Proudmoore while Varian tries to figure out how to deal with the aggressive outbursts evoked from his Lo'Gosh personality. Jaina gives Anduin a hearthstone she had already arranged to be created for him, which is set to her living room in Theramore and links it to him so that he can easily teleport over for a visit anytime he likes.

He later spends time in Ironforge as a Stormwind diplomat. Though he believed that he was sent there to aid the dwarves in such troubling times, to his chagrin, he quickly figures out that Varian hopes training with the dwarves would toughen him up (much like Hjalmar Anvilmar's training had improved Varian's own martial skills). During his time in Ironforge, Anduin also discovered his true calling in life: to be a priest devoted to the tenets of the Holy Light. For those who know Anduin well, this discipline is a perfect fit for the prince, who has consistently proven himself to be compassionate and thoughtful. While there, Anduin also witnesses first hand the destruction of the Cataclysm "Cataclysm (event)") as earthquakes wreaked havoc in Khaz Modan, leading to the death of one of his friends, Aerin. In order to stop the earthquakes, King Magni led a small procession down into a secret place in the city, Old Ironforge, where he used the Ulduar tablets and was cursed with petrification. Anduin was present to represent Stormwind, and among the gathering of dwarves and gnomes was the only human to be invited. It may even be possible that he was the first human to ever see Old Ironforge in all its glory. During the funeral of Magni, Anduin for the first time saw heroes like Tyrande Whisperwind, Malfurion Stormrage and Nobundo.

In the wake of King Magni's petrification, Moira Thaurissan returned to Ironforge to claim the throne. Backed by the Dark Iron clan, Moira ruled Ironforge arrogantly and with an iron fist. She held all the people of Ironforge hostage, including Prince Anduin. Anduin escaped Ironforge with Jaina's hearthstone, just as Baine Bloodhoof also happened to be visiting her. At Theramore, he and Baine discussed their problems and their similar situations of being sons of leaders. Through their discussion, both discovered new insights on the difference between right and wrong and what it means to be a leader. Near the end of their discussions, Anduin gave Baine the great mace Fearbreaker. Anduin's reasons behind it were "it had chosen Baine, as it had chosen Anduin beforehand."

When Anduin heard Varian and eighteen SI:7 operatives were on a mission to liberate Ironforge by assassinating Moira Thaurissan, he convinced the very reluctant Jaina to open a mage portal to Ironforge for him, stating that while he hoped he would not become king for many years, one day he would and would have to deal with similar situations. Rushing back to the High Seat with the aid of an , he arrived in time to convince Varian to spare Moira's life. Just before Varian was about to execute Moira, Anduin intervened and urged him that it would be better to guide Moira to be a better leader rather than to just execute her. Despite Moira being a tyrant who held the city hostage, she was still the legitimate heir to the throne and killing her would only put the succession of Ironforge into question, thus leading to more chaos and conflict. Whereas if she lived, through her and her son, all dwarven clans could unite. Varian slowly agreed but was also conflicted as Moira had caused so much chaos and had already threatened the safety of his son. Varian agreed to spare Moira's life but stipulated that if Moira was to be a leader and unite the dwarves, she would have to earn her crown by earning her people's respect. In order to take into account the opinions of all dwarves, Varian called for the formation of the Council of Three Hammers. Father and son hugged and reconciled while the populace of Ironforge applauded King Varian's decision.

The death of Aerin impacted Anduin in another way. Before he met the dwarven guard, he resented training with heavy weapons and often found excuses to avoid it. But since he lost the dwarf who, for at least a brief time, taught him how to fight, he decided to train again so he could become at least a good swordsman, fully aware that he also has the Light by his side.

Some time afterward, Anduin fostered the growing friendship between himself and Baine by exchanging letters.
Wolfheart

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.

Anduin journeyed with his father to a summit of the Alliance delegates in Darnassus. Upon arriving in the middle of the banquet; his father started deprecating Genn Greymane and the rest of Gilneas "Gilneas (kingdom)") for abandoning the Alliance in their hour of need during the Third War. During Varian's chiding, Malfurion noticed Velen's sudden interest in the young prince. When his father abruptly retired to his guest chambers, Anduin was inadvertently left behind and was found talking with Velen about the Light. Their discussion, however, was interrupted when the young prince's personal guards noticed he didn't retire with them and came to retrieve him. It was later that night, while the prophet was meditating in the Temple Gardens, that Anduin approached him again, wondering if they could resume their discussion.

After reflecting on his discussion with Velen, he was certain that the Light had a plan for him but knew that Varian's willful and overprotective nature was holding him back. It was after Anduin overheard the argument between Malfurion and Varian, that he made his decision and informed his father about his choice to leave, stating that he wanted to pursue whatever destiny the Light was drawing him to. When he felt that he couldn't get his father to listen to him, Anduin started to leave. Varian, in a fit of anger and desperation, grabbed his son's arm, inadvertently hurting him in the process. Though he loves his father, this violent act has caused Anduin to be wary of him. Varian then suggested to Anduin that he should study with Archbishop Benedictus, in order to get his son to stay in Stormwind, but the young prince declined, stating that Benedictus was not right for what he needed to learn and that he needed to go elsewhere, as previously informed by High Priest Rohan, and that elsewhere was with the prophet Velen.

After a final plea by King Varian, Anduin said his good-byes and headed towards the Temple Gardens to inform Velen of his decision. After making sure that the young prince was certain of his choice, Velen offered to take Anduin under his wing and noted that he has a great destiny ahead of him within the Light. After the battle for Ashenvale, Anduin sends a message to Varian to let him know that he will return to Stormwind City after his journey with Velen is completed.
Prophet's Lesson

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.

When human refugees started to congregate outside the Exodar in the wake of the Cataclysm, Anduin was among them, offering his services and healing the sick. Despite his altruism, many of the refugees resented him for his special relationship with his mentor Velen. When Anduin questioned Velen about why he did not warn about the Cataclysm, Velen showed him a vision of a world destroyed by the Burning Legion, explaining that as terrible as Deathwing and the Cataclysm were, the war with the Burning Legion was a far greater struggle. That night, Anduin had a vision of a universe that was in the process of being utterly consumed by a darkness. But then beings of Light appeared, rescued him from the dark and showed him the face of one of the male refugees. The beings surrounding Anduin said or sang in a melodic tone, "Each life, a universe."

As the weeks passed, tension increased between the draenei and the human refugees, and Anduin rebuked Velen for focusing entirely on the Burning Legion while other, more immediate concerns pressed. When the refugees started a riot, leading to a fight with the draenei guards, Anduin rushed to Velen, begging him to stop the needless slaughter. Reminding the prophet of the words in his vision, that every life is a universe to protect, Velen at last realized that he had lost sight of the present world and its needs by being so focused on the future. Stopping the fight between the refugees and guards, Velen told Anduin that he would one day be a powerful priest and a wise king, and Anduin wished only that his father had heard those words.

During his time in the Exodar, he would also spend some time with the naaru O'ros.
Blood of Our Fathers

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.

Anduin returned to Stormwind for Remembrance Day, only to find his father in the throne room shouting at a group of nobles. Disappointed that his father was still ruled by his temper, Anduin left the throne room. He was reunited with his father shortly thereafter by Archbishop Benedictus, who had arranged a meeting for them at Tiffin's grave at Stormwind City Cemetery.
Having been reminded of their love for Tiffin and of family, the bad blood between father and son soon faded away. Varian apologized to Anduin for being so blind in not recognizing the man Anduin has become, recognizing Anduin's strengths and giving him his mother's locket.

Their tender reunion was cut short by the arrival of a group of Twilight's Hammer assassins that had followed them to the cemetery, intent on killing both king and prince. The pair fought back, with Anduin using the Light to bolster and protect his father. However, the last of the assassins managed to summon a massive drakonid as he died, which eventually overcame Varian's defenses and nearly killed him. With his father dying, Anduin conjured a barrier to protect them and dispelled the drakonid's defensive magic, allowing Varian to use the last of his strength to slay the beast. As Varian lay dying, he told Anduin that he loved him, that he was proud of him, and not to mourn him as this had always been his fate. Though Marcus Jonathan and Jaina Proudmoore wanted to take Anduin to a more secure location, Anduin refused to leave his father. Praying to the Light, he infused his father's body with an influx of divine energy and saved his life.

In his Remembrance Day speech that evening, Varian stated that though in the past they relied on strength and steel to forge their destiny, a time would come when leaders would need to be healers instead of warriors: those who mend instead of those who break. Anduin watched his father with pride and love as his words stirred the hearts of their people.
Cataclysm

This section concerns content related to Cataclysm.



Enlarge

Prince Anduin in Cataclysm.

At some point, King Varian Wrynn enlisted an Alliance champion to mentor his son, Prince Anduin. After introducing the two, Varian reveals that he has been amassing a war fleet to assault the Twilight's Hammer in the Twilight Highlands but several setbacks have delayed its launch. In order to resolve the constant delays, Varian has tasked the Alliance champion to oversee the operation personally while Prince Anduin observes. Varian, wishing for his son to gain some life experience but fearful for his safety, instructs the player to escort him throughout his apprenticeship; this escort later turns into unraveling a Twilight's Hammer plot where a trusted Stormwind guard attempts to assassinate Varian but Anduin thwarts his plans.
Tides of War

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.

While Anduin continued his studies about the Holy Light with the draenei, he remained in contact with his "aunt" Jaina through a magical mirror. He and Jaina engaged in brief small talk about his studies and when Jaina went to go meet with Thrall, the young prince told her to be careful and to give his best to Thrall.

When word reached to Anduin about the Attack on Theramore Isle, he quickly returned home knowing that if Jaina had survived, she would venture to Stormwind. To his utter joy, his "aunt" did survive but during the subsequent hug he gave to her, he noticed that Jaina was stiff in his embrace. After answering why he was in Stormwind, Anduin was silent while Jaina and his father talked about going to war. However, as Jaina, in her quest for vengeance, began to advocate the slaughtering of all the orcs, Anduin quickly yelled her name in a mixture of pain, shock, and horror. When Varian pointed out that the Alliance shouldn't rush into the war and Anduin mentioned how not everyone in the Horde would agree with Garrosh Hellscream's decision to use the mana bomb, Jaina, in turn, berated both father and son: calling Varian a coward and Anduin a gullible child while apologizing for her role for encouraging his naivete in that regard. Jaina then called Varian and Anduin fools and turned her back on them when they cried out her name and stepped toward her imploringly. That night, both father and son had a long conversation about what exactly hatred could do to a person. Anduin mentioned that while he knew why the Alliance had to fight the Horde, he made it clear that he did not want to be like Jaina; attacking with hatred in his heart.

Later on, as Anduin, Varian, and Broll Bearmantle observed the new ships being constructed for the Alliance war effort at Stormwind Harbor, the young prince questioned if the night elves would be able to fight their way out of the Horde's blockade. Broll assured him and Varian that the night elves were doing the best they can at the moment and that any lives sacrificed had to count; pointing out that the Alliance had a better chance of victory when they were focused together. After contemplating Broll's words and gazing at the harbor, Anduin couldn't help but wonder why the Horde attacked Theramore with the mana bomb. He furthermore mentioned that the Horde had no idea that the civilians were transported away from Theramore. Varian laid a comforting hand on his son's shoulder and told him that he wished he could tell him why people did horrible things. Upon Anduin's inquiry if Garrosh will win if the Alliance doesn't stoop to his level, both Broll and Varian declared that they would never allow that to happen as long they both live and breathe. When Anduin further asked if Jaina would ever get better, his father told him that he hoped so.

During an Alliance meeting, Anduin informed everyone that Jaina had been to Theramore when Gelbin Mekkatorque asked if anyone had gone there following the massacre. When Gelbin, while relieved at her survival, questioned why she was not present in their planning, Varian only replied that she was too impatient to work with them and is fighting the Horde using her own methods. Soon afterwards, Varian was able to convince those at the meeting to commit to his plan to attack Orgrimmar itself. Later, both his father and Anduin gave an inspirational speech to remind the Alliance exactly what they were fighting for: they will fight the Horde for justice, not genocide, and would never stoop to the monstrous tactics that the Horde has committed. They will embody the ideals of the Alliance and will gain victory on their terms. At the end of his own speech, Anduin called upon the Light to bless all those going off to war, including his father. With Stormwind's king on the battlefield, Anduin was left in charge of the kingdom and was noted to have two draenei vindicators as bodyguards.

During his father's reign, the prince of Stormwind would sometimes use the service of Valeera Sanguinar. Unbeknownst to Varian, he asked her to send messages.
Mists of Pandaria

This section concerns content related to Mists of Pandaria.

This section contains information that needs to be cleaned up. Reason: Past tense and add missing sources for whole MoP.



Enlarge

The orc marksman Shokia unknowingly guarding Prince Anduin in the Jade Forest.

A few months before the discovery of Pandaria, Anduin had a brass compass made for Varian's birthday.

While on a diplomatic mission, Anduin's royal flagship, The Vanguard, was engaged by the Horde's southern fleet. During the naval battle, Admiral Taylor bade him to the ship's hold where he felt restless and was unable to help injured soldiers. The flagship ran aground into the uncharted, mist-shrouded landmass of Pandaria. Given the code name "White Pawn" by the Alliance, he's shipwrecked in the Jade Forest and the Alliance characters are tasked to find and rescue him. With the hold filling with water and his bodyguard dead, Anduin left the ship and ventured inland.

He is later rescued from hozen pursuers by Ren Whitepaw and his daughter, Lina. The Alliance adventurer discovers his whereabouts several days later through a vision instigated by a pandaren dream brew. After finding Anduin, helping him heal Ren's fever and learning more about the Vale of Eternal Blossoms, SI:7 agents arrive to return Anduin home. He refuses, however, as he wants to find the Sacred Pools of the Vale and study their healing powers. He then uses his powers to mind control his way out of their custody.

However, not long after this he is captured by the Horde vanguard and brought to General Nazgrim at Grookin Hill, who identifies him. Fortunately, he slips away from his captors during the battle at Serpent's Heart and caught a ride with a merchant's family as they fled west to Zhu's Watch in the Krasarang Wilds, where he met Mei Barrelbottom.

Mei tells him about the Crane Wing order and on her advice he accompanied a courier to reach the Temple of the Red Crane and sought an audience with Chi-Ji. He studied with the disciples under the tutelage of Chi-Ji and learned a great deal, but his time there became much shorter than he was expecting. When the Sha of Despair attacked the temple, Anduin escaped to the Crane Wing Refuge, where he accepts the help of adventurers of both the Alliance and the Horde in the defense of the temple from the Sha of Despair and its lesser minions.

Anduin is later present in the Temple of the White Tiger in Kun-Lai Summit, where he, the Alliance, and the Horde prove their worthiness to Xuen, the temple's August Celestial, in their quest to discover the Vale. Sunwalker Dezco, who is also present, is impressed with Anduin and sees why his High Chieftain regards him with such high esteem. They are in turn brought to the Gate of the August Celestials, where Xuen and his counterparts open the Gates to the Vale. After this, Anduin and the Alliance are then found in the Shrine of Seven Stars.

At the very conclusion of the Vale of Eternal Blossoms reputation questline, mogu are attacking the Golden Lotus and the Vale of Eternal Blossoms. Anduin is found helping the defenders by using his powers of the Light to keep the mogu from entering Mogu'shan Palace.
Landfall



Enlarge

Anduin in Pandaria.

After Lion's Landing's construction, Anduin reunites with his father. Anduin tells Varian that the war will poison Pandaria but Varian assures Anduin that he is fighting the Horde not out of hatred, but for a love of what's right. Varian asks Anduin to trust him to do the right thing and to also lend him his support. Both Varian and Anduin resolve to work together to protect Pandaria. When news reached them that Tyrande Whisperwind and night elf rangers have been pursuing a Horde party holed up in the Temple of the Red Crane, Anduin advises Varian to not let the temple turn into a war zone as it is still recovering from a Sha infestation. Sensing that Garrosh was trying to lure the Alliance from the beach, Varian plans on defusing the situation with a handful of champions. Anduin trusts his father to handle the battle the right way and leaves the situation in his capable hands.

King Varian later sends Anduin and the Alliance adventurer to negotiate with Jaina Proudmoore the withdrawal of blood elves from Dalaran as the Sunreavers claim fealty to the Horde and represent a major threat to the war effort. Jaina Proudmoore however, refused; citing a desire to maintain Dalaran's neutrality. Her reason being that despite her disdain for Garrosh, Dalaran could serve as a beacon of hope for peace. By showing the world that both Alliance and Horde can trust each other and work together in their city, the world would be able to believe that they could eventually be above the war.

Later on, Anduin summons the adventurer to meet him in the Imperial Exchange. Once there, he explains that the Explorer's League brought back a sha sample from their expedition from Mogujia. He goes on to say that it escaped containment and that it has begun to infect some of their own men. Both the Alliance champion and Anduin work together to cleanse the Sha infestation. After completing the cleansing, Anduin and the champion arrive in time to see the Alliance's dignitaries and allies arrive. With everyone in attendance, they start the proceedings of their summit. Anduin reports to Varian that it was the Sha energy that was causing their troops to act so violently. Though Varian is confident that the Alliance could defeat any foe, Anduin advises Varian to not underestimate the Sha as it feeds on one's innermost weaknesses, twisting and manipulating their thoughts. Just then, an Echo of Hatred manifests and Jaina Proudmoore restrains it in an ice block. Many of the dignitaries are shocked or horrified by its dark power, while others see merit in the Sha and want to study or weaponize the Sha's energy. Varian asks for Anduin's opinion on the matter and he states that while it may be possible to harness the Sha's power as a weapon, they risk destroying their own people in the process, a price that he is not willing to pay. Varian concurs with his son's assessment and destroys the Sha, thereby forbidding its use.

Anduin then accompanied Sarannha Skyglaive into the Ruins of Korune where the Alliance found and teleported the Divine Bell to Darnassus. The Horde managed to steal the bell from the city, which was the reason for the Purging of Dalaran. After the purge, Anduin met with Varian and Jaina at Lion's Landing and witnessed Jaina pledge the Kirin Tor to the Alliance but also the ruined negotiations to get the Sin'dorei into the Alliance as a consequence of her actions.

After hearing about the Horde's acquisition of the Divine Bell, Anduin began searching for a means to counter its power. His research has led him to an item known as the Harmonic Mallet. The Harmonic Mallet was last seen in the hands of the Monkey King. The tomb of the Monkey King is located in Tomb of Conquerors, where he and his mogu adversary are frozen in jade. As legend has it, the Monkey King and a Mogu named the " The Jade Warlord" were in the middle of a duel until both of them somehow became petrified in jade. Anduin discovered an incantation to release him from the jade imprisonment but it would release the Jade Warlord as well. After the Alliance champion defeats the Jade Warlord, the Monkey King asks the champion to solve his three riddles in exchange for the whereabouts of the Harmonic Mallet: an instrument used by the Pandaren rebels in ancient times to counter the mogu's Divine Bell by turning its power into pure harmony. After solving his riddles, the Monkey King revealed that he had to break the mallet and sent his minions to hide its pieces in the far away corners of Pandaria in order to prevent it from falling into the hands of the mogu. Anduin and the Alliance adventurer then go on a quest to reassemble the Harmonic Mallet.



Enlarge

Anduin as depicted in Son of the Wolf.

When news reached the Alliance that Horde forces were amassing in huge numbers at Emperor's Reach, everyone expected Garrosh to use the Divine Bell. Knowing that time was of the essence, Anduin stole the Harmonic Mallet and went to stop Garrosh personally. The adventurer witnesses Garrosh make a speech about the Horde's grand destiny, and how he will use the Divine Bell to erase weakness from his orcs and create a stronger Horde. Garrosh rings the Divine Bell, and it turns his Kor'kron into sha. After they are dispatched by the adventurer, Prince Anduin Wrynn intervenes and tries to deter Garrosh from using the Divine Bell. Anduin's pleas fell on deaf ears, however, and Garrosh used the Divine Bell to sha infest his champion Ishi, who the adventurer then has to fight. Though Garrosh encouraged his troops to master the Sha energy, in the end, none of his champions were able to do so. In the aftermath of the battle, Anduin used the Harmonic Mallet to turn the Divine Bell's chaos into pure harmony. This stuns Garrosh but Garrosh recovers and strikes at the bell and destroys it; causing the rubble to fall on Anduin and crushing his body. Believing him dead, Garrosh lets the Alliance champion live to relay the fate of Anduin to King Varian; thereby illustrating the price for his continued defiance. The adventurer discovers that Anduin still lives, albeit badly injured in Garrosh's unprovoked assault, and retrieves Anduin's broken body from the ruins. Using a signal flare for immediate evacuation, they fly to Lion's Landing where Varian mourns and tends to his son, ordering for Velen to be sent to their location at once. Both Varian and Jaina Proudmoore are furious at this assault and swear to make Garrosh pay. Varian sent for Velen who did the initial healing. He told him that the pain probably would never disappear entirely, and there was a good chance it would increase with age. Years later, the pain became an indicator of danger.
Rise of the Thunder King



Enlarge

Wrathion and Anduin chatting at the Tavern in the Mists, atop the Path of a Hundred Steps.

Anduin was ultimately healed by pandaren mistweavers but is still recovering from his injuries. Despite objections from his father, Anduin insists on wandering around talking to people. He is revealed to be in the Tavern in the Mists recovering from his wounds and escorted by Alliance guards and by Sunwalker Dezco. There he met Wrathion and has been discussing the militant events of Pandaria with him. Anduin later starts playing the pandaren board game Jihui with Wrathion. As they play, he and Wrathion discuss Lei Shen, the Thunder King, and his leadership style; to which they disagree with each other if whether his tyrannical and brutal reign should be applauded or not. Anduin disapproves of Wrathion's hard cutthroat outlook and Wrathion likewise thinks Anduin too soft. Although suspicious of the black dragon and thinking that he shouldn't be trusted, Anduin is still intrigued by him. When Wrathion starts plotting with the player to confiscate mogu technology, Anduin warns the player to be wary of Wrathion and the reckless pursuit of power lest they end up traveling the same dark path as Garrosh Hellscream. Later on, Anduin becomes suspicious of Wrathion's schemes and asks him what he and the player are up to. Wrathion tells Anduin he has nothing to hide and invites Anduin to accompany him and the player to Mason's Folly, where they partake in the scenic views and Wrathion gifts the adventurer the Crown of Heaven. Anduin warns the player to think twice before putting the Crown of Heaven on. When the adventurer brings the Heart of the Thunder King, he felt a chill within him at the first sight of it. Then Wrathion takes the heart from the adventurer and Anduin expressed his surprise and revulsion as Wrathion without warning, ate it and began to reveal memories in his head that Anduin didn't understand. After that, Anduin says aloud that he doesn't trust Wrathion; Wrathion replies that "\

Anduin appears on the Timeless Isle, accompanied by two Royal Bodyguards, standing by a table with Kairoz, Lorewalker Cho and Wrathion. At the conclusion of  \[30-35\] Time Keeper Kairoz, Anduin notes that time is frozen on the isle, and asks what could have created such an effect, to which Kairoz replies that this is what he wants to find out.
Siege of Orgrimmar



Enlarge

Anduin at the end of the Siege of Orgrimmar.

Anduin along side with the rest of the Alliance forces bore witness to a defeated Garrosh Hellscream. When Varian returns to his faction, Lady Jaina Proudmoore advised the High King to "dismantle the Horde". Varian commands his guards to march with him towards the Horde side and Anduin, confused of what he intended to do, questioned him of what he was doing. Varian responded to him, "What a king must do." He then witnessed his father negotiate a peace with the Horde.
War Crimes

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.



Enlarge

Anduin speaking to Garrosh in his cell, as seen using the Vision of Time.

By the time the trial of Garrosh Hellscream started and the leaders of Azeroth gathered, Anduin was already in the Temple of the White Tiger. Once reunited with his father, he stood by his teacher, Prophet Velen. Later, he was seen in Violet Rise having dinner. When the first day of the trial started, he revealed he had invited Wrathion to witness the proceedings. After hearing the charges against Garrosh, he felt sorry for Baine for having to defend him. When Baine, who acted as Garrosh's defense attorney, and Tyrande, who acted as Garrosh's prosecutor, finished their speeches, Anduin wanted to support Baine but was instead taken by his father outside of the trial proceedings so he wouldn't have to interact with Garrosh. Anduin was shocked when he saw Tyrande's first vision about the orcs and draenei on Draenor. Although he has learned about the violent history between the two races, he didn't know it was so brutal. When Velen, as the first witness, returned to his seat, Anduin went out for a walk accompanied by Wrathion and discussed Tyrande's strategy. Anduin asked Wrathion whether he considers him a friend to which Wrathion responded that he did. During the second hearing, he watched the visions of the deaths of Kelantir Bloodblade and Frandis Farley as well as the reactions of Halduron Brightwing and Sylvanas Windrunner to them. Anduin approved of Kelantir's courage.

During the second day of the trial, Anduin was called as the fourth witness. He retold the events of Theramore's meeting and how he stopped Garrosh from using the Divine Bell. Anduin revealed that he didn't intervene immediately because he feared what it would do to Ishi. Baine's questions eventually led the prince to say that he didn't want revenge after the Divine Bell incident and closed by saying that he believes Garrosh can change. Afterwards when the Wrynns went to have a meal, the prince encountered Vereesa and told her he understands her anger at his responses at Garrosh's trial whilst she responded that she understood his decision. After that, Anduin was brought to Taran Zhu and Baine who revealed that Garrosh wishes to meet the prince. Anduin agreed and convinced his father to believe in him. Garrosh asks Anduin if he believes in destiny. Garrosh continued to question him if he chose the Light or if the Light chose him. Anduin didn't know what to say even though he studied as a priest. Garrosh set an example of a golden-haired, beloved human prince that was a paladin, and yet he turned his back on the Light. Anduin quickly responded that he was nothing like him. When the hearing of Vol'jin was done, Anduin met with Garrosh and they spoke about the new Warchief as well as about what would Garrosh do if there was a peace between the Horde and Alliance that mutually benefited both factions. That led Garrosh to send Anduin away.



Enlarge

Vereesa Windrunner telling Anduin that Garrosh Hellscream's food was poisoned.

When the fifth day ended, the prince once again went to see the former Warchief. Anduin wanted to understand Garrosh's reasoning but he retorted that he would never understand. During the sixth day, it was revealed how Anduin, Jaina, and Baine worked together in the past to overthrow Magatha Grimtotem. Varian was angered by his son and Jaina conducting political moves without conferring with him and upon returning to Violet Rise, Anduin witnessed Varian arguing with Jaina. After that, he learned that Varian is going to be Baine's last witness. After the following dinner, the prince met with Wrathion once more and conversed about the recent events. During the seventh day, he watched the vision of Theramore's obliteration and on the last day he heard the closing argument. After Kalec came to say goodbye to the Wrynns, Anduin went to visit Garrosh one last time. On his way to Garrosh's cell, Anduin noticed Vereesa lost in her thoughts. She suddenly noticed him, and supposing that perhaps it's the work of the Light, told him that Garrosh's last meal is poisoned, before leaving for Dalaran. Immediately he ran to Garrosh's cell, convincing the brothers Li and Lo to let him enter for the last time. Anduin and Garrosh's last conversation was even more harsh and antagonistic. While Garrosh mocked him, the pandaren brought him his last meal. As the prince was going to tell him about the poison, Garrosh told him that when he is king, the orcs will march to Stormwind and they will raze it to the ground and the Stormwindians will wish Tiffin had miscarried. Anduin didn't know what to do - to watch Garrosh die, or to intervene. As Garrosh took his bowl and was about to take a bite from his meal, Anduin kicked the bowl. The meal spread across the cage and Garrosh took the Prince's arm in anger, twisting it and was about to tear it off. At this moment, a rat emerged and began eating the spilled meal and after a few seconds, died. Garrosh then let Anduin go and Anduin healed his arm with the Light, leaving without further words. He told the Chu brothers to remove Garrosh's chains from his feet during the final verdict of the hearing in order for Garrosh to stand as a warrior. After that, he sought Yu Fei, the pandaren trial courier, and sent Vereesa a message: "He lives. I will not make two children both fatherless and motherless. What you do now is your choice." Vereesa's response was: " Rhonin thanks him".

Afterwards, he returned to his seat and watched Garrosh's last speech. As he was watching him, Anduin was astounded by Garrosh being unapologetic for his criminal actions. Anduin was later called for by his father and the two went to the entrance of the temple. With Go'el, they all sensed something was wrong as Chromie went missing. The Prince started looking for her and he returned to the cell and found the Chus knocked out in front of the prison's door. He healed them quickly and they told him that two women with crossbows had attacked them. Suddenly they heard a gnomish voice from inside the cell. The voice belonged to Chromie, who revealed to Anduin that Kairoz is going to use the Vision of Time for something. As Anduin turned, he saw Wrathion and understood that the Black Prince and his two bodyguards, Left and Right, were in league with Kairoz. The Black Prince told him that he is doing what is right for Azeroth and that he hopes that one day Anduin will understand that. Wrathion concludes that he hopes the two of them will fight against a common enemy as brothers in the future. The dragon held up a hand and caused Anduin to faint. Once awoken, he heard noises and when he returned to the main area, he entered chaos. He saw himself - King Anduin Wrynn from an alternate universe wielding Fearbreaker \- and was warned by him of the hunter Vol'jin who preyed on his people and collected elven and human ears as a necklace. Prince Anduin took Fearbreaker from his alternate universe counterpart's hands and started attacking the alternate universe Vol'jin. However, the troll gained the upper hand and as he was about to kill Anduin, the King Anduin from the alternate universe lunged himself at Vol'jin, but the troll overpowered King Anduin and stabbed him. As he was about to take his ear, Chronormu snatched the hunter and tossed him across the arena. Chromie explained that understanding the essence of his counterpart returns him to his world. The prince kneeled by his alternate counterpart and told the king that their father lives in this reality. With this, King Anduin died and his body vanished. Prince Anduin then began healing other fighters caught in the fray.

After the chaos ended, he ran to his father and saw Jaina was dying from a wound. He started healing her but did not have the strength to save her. He then witnessed Chi-Ji's gift of resurrection and heard Chromie saying that it was Kairoz who orchestrated this attack. Anduin added that Wrathion supported Kairoz in this machination too. Ultimately, he heard the sentence of the Celestials \- that every person here was judged, a fact he had grasped earlier.
Legion

This section concerns content related to Legion.

Heir to the throne of Stormwind, Anduin is wise beyond his years. Time and again, he has used diplomacy to end conflict, inspiring even his warrior father to lay down arms in pursuit of peace. But diplomacy has its limits, and some villains can't be reasoned with. As the Burning Legion threatens to annihilate Azeroth, Anduin will learn the true cost of peace... and whether he's willing to pay it.



Enlarge

King Varian Wrynn and Anduin are warned of the Burning Legion's return by Khadgar.

Shortly after the Burning Legion returned to Azeroth, Khadgar informed him and the other leaders of the demons' arrival. Anduin attended the war council with the Horde in Dalaran. He stopped Genn and Sylvanas at one point from bickering and was a voice of reason, resulting in both factions working together against the Legion once more.

Varian and his fleet then traveled to the Broken Shore alongside Sylvanas Windrunner to battle the demonic threat head-on, leaving Anduin behind in Stormwind. The battle ended in disaster, as Varian lost his life in the battle and the remaining Alliance forces barely got out alive due to the Horde's unexpected retreat.



Enlarge

Anduin in Legion.

At the memorial service for King Varian, Anduin was unable to speak formally. He also received a letter that Varian had written before the disastrous battle from a veteran of the Broken Shore. When the discussion among the Alliance's leaders transitioned to how to respond to the Horde's treachery at the Broken Shore, Anduin agreed with Velen that the Alliance had to focus on the Burning Legion and work with the Horde to that end. Jaina however, blamed Varian's death on the Horde leaving the Alliance to die and wants to fight them as well. She insisted that her mages would never work with the Horde again and left, as Anduin mourns his father's death, the disaster on the Broken Shore, and Jaina's and Genn's fixation on revenge. He couldn't blame Jaina or Genn for feeling the way that they did, but insisted there was a better way. Following the service, the Illidari envoy Jace Darkweaver uncovered Burning Legion infiltrators plotting to attack the Alliance racial leaders, notably the newly crowned King Anduin, during their time of mourning and aided Alliance forces in repelling the demons. Grateful for the Illidari's assistance, King Anduin allowed the Illidari to establish a temporary camp in the Mage Quarter and tasked an Alliance champion to act as his envoy to them while cautioning the adventurer to keep an eye on them lest their dark powers consume their new allies.

Anduin later sent a force led by Genn Greymane and Sky Admiral Rogers to Stormheim to aid distinguished Alliance champions in obtaining the .

When an Alliance champion reached Prestige Rank 2, King Anduin could be found in Stormwind Keep alongside other notable leaders of the Alliance, where he hosted the ceremony that congratulated the champion for their battles against the Horde.

Anduin was advised by Detheroc disguised as Master Mathias Shaw for a time, receiving lies.
The compass



Enlarge

The compass falls to the bottom of the sea.

For those of the Alliance, the loss of King Varian Wrynn at the Broken Shore echoed throughout Azeroth. But for his son, Anduin Wrynn, that loss was felt most keenly as he faced not only the loss of a father, but also took on new responsibilities as a king.

At the Broken Shore, an Alliance hero discovered Varian's compass, lost during the initial attack on the Broken Shore, at the bottom of the sea. The adventurer brought the compass to Anduin, who was stunned and realized that he hadn't had time to mourn after his father passed away. The king thanked the adventurer.

All was quiet until Genn called for the same adventurer to meet him at Stormwind Keep. Genn mentioned that the king had not been the same ever since the adventurer brought the compass back, mentioning that Anduin had become listless and distracted. Genn sent two guards to surveil him and they said that the king had been praying at the Cathedral of Light. Genn asked the adventurer to remedy the king's melancholy by going to him and convincing him to resume his duties.

The adventurer found Anduin at the cathedral, praying to the Light for answers. Anduin felt forlorn, believing that he hadn't earned his father's crown and that his people didn't have faith in him. He decided to travel around the city to see what his people thought of him. To do this, he used a spell that disguised him in dark, hooded clothing. He passed by the royal guards and made his way to Lion's Rest with the adventurer.

Along the way, they came across Roy Pitts and Jenny Winslow. The two were having a conversation of whether they would be safe under Anduin should the Legion come to Stormwind. Another conversation was encountered with the two children Karyn and Dougie. Dougie was pretending to be Anduin but Karyn convinced him to be Varian because he was tougher. Arriving to Varian's memorial, Anduin spoke about how he had been praying to the Light for guidance and to know if his father's spirit was at rest, and that while his people liked him and respected him, they didn't believe in him the way they had believed in Varian.

Content knowing how his people felt, Anduin wanted to know how his advisers felt about him, fearing that they didn't trust him, and returned to the keep on his gryphon with the adventurer close by. Arriving at the keep, he found Genn and Velen discussing him. Velen held Anduin in high regard, saying that a vision had shown him the boy becoming a great leader. Genn, on the other hand, felt that Anduin didn't have the mettle to succeed, pointing out how he didn't have the experience of the Broken Shore and how a compass had managed to easily break his spirit.

Agreeing with Genn, Anduin decided to travel to the Broken Shore to see with his own eyes the threat they faced. He left the adventurer behind to tell Velen of his plan. While Velen believed that the Broken Shore was dangerous, he also understood that this experience was necessary for Anduin and sent the adventurer to keep an eye on the king.

The adventurer found Anduin at a campfire with a bunch of monks and accompanied him to Soul Ruin, where they put the lost souls of Alliance soldiers to rest. Afterwards, they made their way to Wrynnfall, where Genn was showing Velen the site of Varian's death. Velen commented that Anduin didn't know the Legion like they did. Anduin stepped up and revealed himself, much to Genn's initial shock, which quickly turned to sorrow. Revealing his worries and doubts about living up to his father's legacy, the young king found one of his father's swords comprising Shalamayne under the ash and sand and fell to his knees. Genn knelt before a despairing Anduin to speak to him face-to-face and tell him how Varian's heroic actions were a challenge to them to never let fear prevail, even at the very gates of hell. When Anduin touched one of Varian's blades, the Light granted him a vision of Varian. Anduin asked what he was supposed to do now, and Varian responded "What a king must do". In that moment, as Anduin accepted the duties of a king and reconnected with his purpose and his father's legacy, the sword began to glow in his hands, not with the red-orange hue of a warrior but with the golden glow of a priest. At that moment, Anduin began to heal.

The king didn't tell anyone about what he had experienced when he sensed Varian's presence, not even Velen, who would have understood.



Anduin at the Cathedral of Light.



Anduin disguised.



Anduin at Lion's Rest.



Anduin at the Broken Shore.



Anduin watches over the remains of the fel reaver his father destroyed.



Anduin, Genn and Velen at Wrynnfall.



Image of Varian as it appeared to Anduin.



Anduin retrieves one of Shalamayne's halves from the Broken Shore.



Anduin accepts his fate.



Anduin wielding one of his father's sword's halves.
Son of the Wolf (present)

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft manga or comics.



Enlarge

Anduin sits with his father's message and blade.



Enlarge

Anduin uses the Light to kill a nathrezim assassin.

By this point, Anduin had recovered Varian's second sword as well and wielded the combined Shalamayne.

While Anduin was rereading his father's letter, he silently contemplated his new duties as king. While musing that this was not the coronation he had dreamed of as a boy, a lone soldier entered the room, saying that he had brought good news from the Broken Shore. He then said "It seems the war is over... for you" before erupting in fel energy and lunging towards the king with a dagger in hand. In response, Anduin grabbed his wrist before incapacitating him in a magical web. When Captain Rivers and the guards arrived, Anduin, now standing in front of the trapped nathrezim, calmly told them to sweep the rest of the castle to make sure that the assassin was working alone. Once he and the demon were alone again, Anduin began questioning him what the Legion hoped to achieve, saying that the Alliance would not fall because one or even two leaders died. The nathrezim replied that it already had, that "the wolf" — Varian — was already dead and that the rest of the Alliance would soon join him in the grave. When Anduin said that the demon clearly knew nothing of the Alliance's resolve, the dreadlord responded by saying that the Legion knew everything and that Anduin was nothing like the wolf — that Varian had hoped to raise a warrior, but had instead raised a foolish runt who dreamed of peace where there could never be any, that Anduin had made the wolf weak by befriending his foes and standing in his way. The dreadlord then claimed that even though the new king had now seen the truth by trading words with warriors and nearly dying for it, he could not hope to stand against those who had killed his father and that he would only lead the Alliance to ruin. However, the nathrezim then made an offer: by joining the Burning Legion, Anduin could achieve the peace he had always strived for. Anduin replied that he was indeed a man of peace, that he was the light that remained after his father's death, and that he would "finish this". He then focused holy energy into the shape of a hammer before using it to strike the nathrezim's chest, instantly killing it and shattering its body into smoldering fragments. Anduin mused that while he had indeed changed his father, Varian had also changed him. He wondered if that would be enough for the Alliance and for Azeroth, and resolved that it would have to be and that there would be peace one day.
The Wound



Enlarge

Anduin gives a speech at Lion's Rest.

Sargeras, lord of the Burning Legion, was eventually defeated, but not before he managed to wound Azeroth greatly in Silithus. King Anduin ordered Master Mathias Shaw of SI:7 to investigate the destroyed land and report back. Despite their losses, Anduin gave a hopeful speech at Lion's Rest in Stormwind to the Alliance, after which he was approached by Spymaster Shaw and Genn Greymane for a private meeting. Shaw reported that many goblins had been digging up a mysterious new substance in Silithus. Though they did not know what this substance was, it seemed that the Horde did know. Anduin said they had to learn more, and Shaw assured him that SI:7 was already on it.
Before the Storm

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.

Anduin later had a meeting with his councilors in Stormwind's map room. Among Anduin's councilors were: Shaw, Greymane, Prophet Velen, and Sky Admiral Rogers; all of whom Anduin asked for their opinions on Azerite. When Admiral Rogers suggested weaponizing it, Anduin reproached her and proposed to use Azerite for more benevolent applications. Greymane however, thought Sylvanas would use it for destructive purposes and so should the Alliance. Anduin argued that perhaps the Alliance should seek to be more righteous in their use of Azerite than the Horde and though he was sure they could take pragmatic measures to mitigate the Horde threat, he thought that with enough knowledge they could also set out to focus on the non-destructive capabilities of Azerite. Anduin proposed involving the other Alliance nations in their discovery and seek their aid in understanding the enigmatic mineral. Anduin also revealed his plans to travel to the other member nations of the Alliance so that he may strengthen their diplomatic bonds and provide economic aid. Greymane however, reminded Anduin that he is king of Stormwind and his people needed him there, adding that Gilneas for their part, needs no royal visit. When Anduin transitioned the conversation of how his travels to the Broken Shore has benefited his development as a leader, Greymane stressed to Anduin that his safety and presence is integral to the stability of his kingdom and the dangers of him adventuring with no successor to his throne. Even so, Anduin firmly believed that although Stormwind needs him, him traveling to the other Alliance countries to promote unity and prosperity is the right thing to do for all and the proper use of peace time.

Sometime later, Anduin had breakfast with Genn Greymane and Prophet Velen. Anduin told Genn he would like him to act as a temporary leader of Stormwind while he was away. While Genn was honored and agreed to serve Stormwind in Anduin's absence, he also noted that he was an old man and that Anduin should be thinking of creating an heir. Anduin distracted his advisers from the uncomfortable topic by turning their attention to making plans for their diplomatic tour and ways for Stormwind to show their allies its appreciation. Anduin's first stop in his diplomatic tour was Ironforge, and Anduin had gifted the dwarves ten wagons of — the key ingredient to arguably Ironforge's best-loved export, ale. Anduin and his entourage were treated to a feast with the Council of Three Hammers. By the time they were about to be served desert, Anduin, Moira Thaurissan, and her son decided to take a stroll through Ironforge while Velen stayed behind to converse with Muradin Bronzebeard and Falstad Wildhammer. As Anduin and Moira had a pleasant conversation while Dagran explored Old Ironforge, a messenger told them that Magni Bronzebeard has returned to Ironforge and required a conference with the both of them. Moira and Anduin found Magni in the Library "Library (Ironforge)") section of the Hall of Explorers, conversing with High Explorer Muninn Magellas and Velen, while Falstad, Muradin, Gelbin Mekkatorque, and Captain Tread Sparknozzle stood beside them listening intently. Magni explained that Azeroth is wounded and that they must set to healing her or all will perish. Thus Magni has been recruiting priests and other healers for that express purpose. Moira proposed that they reach out to the Conclave to aid in this endeavor. Anduin also thought this was an opportune time to show all in attendance the shard of Azerite he had in his possession. Magni was the one to coin the name Azerite and confirmed it was the "essence" of Azeroth which is proliferating on the surface. Azeroth would normally be able to heal itself, but with Sargeras's sword impaled in Silithus, it is unable to do so without outside help. Despite stated desires to weaponize Azerite against the Horde, Anduin reminded the leaders that they are not at war with the Horde and that their priorities should be to heal Azeroth and to keep Azerite from falling into the Horde's hands. Anduin asked Gelbin to lend the gnomes' ingenuity to the Alliance and figure out ways to put Azerite to good use while Magellas sent a team of Explorers' League to Silithus. With their purpose clear, the leaders of the Alliance set out on their tasks.



Enlarge

Before the Storm cover art featuring King Anduin and Warchief Sylvanas Windrunner.

Anduin, Velen, and Moira later portaled to Netherlight Temple, where he witnessed the multiracial priests of the Conclave. There he met the Forsaken Alonsus Faol, who Anduin stated was one of his heroes. After being introduced to the priests of the Conclave, Anduin pondered if the Conclave could become a template for the disparate estranged factions of Azeroth so they too may come together one day. Faol also introduced Anduin to Calia Menethil, whom Anduin was relieved and shocked to hear had survived. Though he had questions for Calia, Calia was unwilling to talk about her past and Anduin had to prioritize enlisting the aid of the Conclave for the mission of healing Azeroth. Moira addressed the Conclave and requested their aid. After Anduin's injury from the Divine Bell, Anduin would only receive aches in his bones when he was being cruel, thoughtless, or courting danger; Anduin believed these warning signs to be the Light guiding him. Since he felt no pain from his body, he thought it safe to share with the multi-factional priests of the Conclave the discovery of Azerite. He told them that with Azerite, they may have the potential to fix Azeroth but they require more research on the mineral before they can utilize it. In the meantime, Anduin asked the Conclave to recruit other healers such as shaman and druids to their mission. Faol welcomed Anduin to partake in Conclave affairs and return anytime he wished and Anduin agreed that he could garner new ideas from the Conclave. Anduin gave Moira his shard of Azerite to deliver to Mekkatorque, while he made preparations to return to Stormwind.

Genn Greymane and Anduin later had dinner in Stormwind, where they were filling out all the paper work required to formalize the state of affairs before Anduin's trip to Darnassus. Genn once again thanked Anduin for trusting him with his kingdom, but he felt it was his duty to discuss the matter of an heir for Stormwind. Though Anduin tried to make light of the situation, Genn sternly reminded him that matters of politics isn't a game and Stormwind could find itself in a dire situation if power is transferred to the wrong person. Genn gave Anduin the same advice he would have given his late son Liam: that life is too short and unpredictable. Genn urged Anduin to use this time of peace, for however long it may last, to search for a queen to bear him a successor. Genn suggested that if he has not found a mate already, perhaps he should consider an arranged marriage and would even offer his own daughter's hand. Anduin knew he needs to undergo a courtship eventually but he found the idea of an arranged forced marriage, stranger or not, abhorrent and felt Tess Greymane would feel the same. Anduin promised he will revisit this topic with him at a later date and transitioned the discussion to be about his meeting with Calia Menethil. When Anduin discussed how the Conclave had brought together priests from all walks of life, including Forsaken and Horde, Genn reminded him that although his compassion for all races is an admirable trait, he must be wary it does not lead to dangerous naiveté. Although the Horde has produced some notable noble members such as Thrall and Baine, Genn stressed that the Forsaken are depraved abominations who don't feel the same things living people do. When Anduin countered that the Conclave was being led by the Forsaken Alonsus Faol, Genn was outraged that such a blasphemy had befallen such a beloved hero of humanity and questioned Anduin how he could tolerate it. Anduin responded that the Conclave had shown him that the Forsaken aren't all mindless Scourge and although not all of them are good, some such as Alonsus Faol and Frandis Farley are. Although Genn was eager to walk out and dismiss the notion of seeing the Forsaken as people, Anduin was stern and managed to get Genn to listen to his proposal. Anduin proposed using Faol to open negotiations and heal the rift between the Forsaken and the Alliance. Anduin proposed that if the Alliance reunited the Forsaken with their families, Sylvanas may be convinced to not consider the Alliance as a threat and use Azerite for destructive means. And should true diplomacy with the Forsaken succeed, then the Alliance and Horde can work together to heal Azeroth. Later on, Anduin tasked Valeera Sanguinar to send a letter to Baine Bloodhoof about initiating a meeting between Forsaken and their living relatives.

Anduin arrived in Darnassus and met with Tyrande Whisperwind and Malfurion Stormrage to discuss the night elves' progress in healing Azeroth and their investigations about Azerite. During their discussion, a gnome Kirin Tor mage portalled in to deliver a message from Kalecgos. Kalecgos reported Jaina Proudmoore's visit to him and informed Anduin she will be unavailable for the foreseeable future. Anduin revealed the message spoke of Jaina and all the leaders spoke of their hopes that Jaina will one day return to active duty in their coalition. With Velen already spurring the draenei to aid in their endeavors, Anduin hearthed back to Stormwind. There Anduin met with Valeera who reported that Perith Stormhoof had refused to accept his letter for Baine, as he was being watched, but noted he would relay the contents of the message to his chieftain instead. She also gave Baine's letter to Anduin which implied that Sylvanas Windrunner had learned of their correspondence and had pressured him into cutting off all contact with Anduin. Anduin was also gifted a small chip of Baine's horn as an offering of respect and friendship. As Anduin lamented that his pool of trusted comrades was growing smaller, Valeera reassured Anduin that he can always count on her friendship but warned him as king, he cannot afford to trust unwisely.

Anduin returned to the Netherlight Temple to discuss with Faol and Calia the progress of their mission. Furthermore, Anduin sought to enlist Alonsus' aid in his endeavors to formalize a Gathering between the Forsaken and their human loved ones. Although Alonsus had doubts of the two races' ability to move past their prejudices or theirs to overcome the obstacles that sought to oppose such a unity, with Calia's urging, Alonsus agreed to work with his fellow priests to lay the groundwork for the event. Anduin then received word that his manservant Wyll Benton was dying. Though Anduin rushed to his side to tend to him in his final moments and even offered to heal him with the Light, Wyll refused as he tired of living with old age and wanted to see his deceased loved ones once again. After arranging the funeral of Wyll, Anduin summoned his councilors, with the addition of High Exarch Turalyon and Alleria Windrunner, to the map room. When Anduin revealed his intention to set up the Gathering, all of his advisers were opposed to the plan with the exception of Velen, who supported it, and Shaw who remained neutral to the idea. Even so, Anduin's desire for peace, partially to honor his friend Wyll's dying wish, and his belief that Sylvanas would never endanger her Forsaken in such a way that would start a war overcame his trepidation for any of the stated risks. Sternly, he commanded his advisers to support him in securing and orchestrating this meeting.

Some time later, Anduin heard back from Sylvanas Windrunner that she has agreed to support the Gathering, but only on the stipulation that it be conducted with a small vetted group and rules implemented to heighten the security of both factions. Anduin also received a letter from Vellcinda Benton, a member of the Desolate Council and Wyll's widowed wife. She thanked Anduin for informing her of Wyll's passing and for looking after him in his final moments. She also informed Anduin that all members of the Desolate Council were in full support of the Gathering and they have been tasked by Sylvanas to aid in the vetting process. In the meanwhile, Anduin, Genn Greymane, and Calia Menethil set out to recruiting suitable human participants for the Gathering from the Alliance's side. As they worked together, Anduin asked Calia if she sought to reclaim the throne of Lordaeron and if she had a child that could one day become her heir, to which Calia did acknowledge a daughter and told Anduin her intentions. However, Calia also requested to participate in the Gathering. Since his body did not respond to any nefarious intentions, Anduin agreed to permit it should Faol also consent.

After Anduin orchestrated a tense yet productive reunion between Genn Greymane, Turalyon, and Alonsus Faol, Anduin had managed to gain Turalyon's support for the Gathering but Genn still remained cynical. During the Gathering, Anduin met with Sylvanas Windrunner face to face to set the terms of the event and bluntly asked her if she intentionally betrayed his father during the Battle for the Broken Shore. Though shocked by Anduin's straightforwardness, she gave an honest answer, that the Burning Legion's numbers sealed Varian's fate regardless of the decision she made. Though the Gathering started off peaceful, Sylvanas eventually ordered to recall the Forsaken participants. When some Forsaken participants refused or hesitated to retreat from the event, Anduin felt the Divine Bell's pain in his body and realized that Calia had revealed herself to instruct any of the deserting Forsaken to find sanctuary in the Alliance's side of Stromgarde Keep. Sylvanas responded by sending her dark rangers to kill all the Forsaken participants. As Anduin's generals scrambled to prepare a defense and secure the Alliance participants, Anduin took a gryphon to try to secure any of the Stormwindians trying to flee with their Forsaken counterparts or rescue any of the Forsaken participants from assassination. However, he came too late, and all the Forsaken participants died. Sylvanas herself personally murdered Calia Menethil right in front of him, and with his Light powers exhausted, Anduin called Sylvanas' bluff that she would kill him since she was not prepared to face the unrestrained ire of the Alliance. Leaving himself vulnerable, Anduin carried Calia's corpse back to Stromgarde. He later sent Calia's corpse to Netherlight Temple and Velen advised Anduin to travel there as well to seek Saa'ra's council so he may know how to guide his people in coping with the tragic events. Saa'ra summoned Anduin to its chamber, where Anduin learned that Calia's body was not decomposing. With Saa'ra's guidance, Saa'ra, Alonsus Faol, and Anduin Wrynn raised Calia Menethil back to life with the power of the Light, but as an undead.

Back in the Arathi Highlands, Anduin helped the Stormwindians bury the Forsaken participants of the Gathering. As Anduin and Genn attended the Forsaken's funeral, Anduin fully expected to be chastised for his failure and welcomed Genn to do so as he felt responsible for the dead. Instead, Genn gave him comforting words and told him to not blame himself, and that Sylvanas was the one responsible for killing her own people. Genn apologized and acknowledged that the Gathering showed him that the Forsaken still had humanity in them and that peace was possible between them and the living. Anduin also acknowledged that Genn was right about Sylvanas, but Genn said that he was wrong about her as well, as he thought her to be ruthless to the Alliance but not to her own people. Anduin lamented how Sylvanas had politically outmaneuvered him to twist the outcome of the Gathering to her own advantage. Anduin finally came to the conclusion that peace could never be possible with Sylvanas in power, and that he truly believed that Sylvanas was irredeemable.
New allies

This section concerns content related to Legion.

Anduin sent letters summoning champions to the Stormwind Embassy, where he unveiled his plans to seek new allies for the Alliance. Eventually, and thanks to Turalyon and Alleria Windrunner, the Alliance recruited both the Lightforged draenei and the void elves, with Anduin thanking the champions for their assistance back at the Embassy.

This section concerns content related to Battle for Azeroth.

Queen Moira Thaurissan's leadership and the Dark Iron dwarves' aid have proven to be valuable assets to the Alliance. Sometime during the Fourth War, King Anduin formalized the induction of the Dark Iron dwarves into the Alliance.
Battle for Azeroth

This section concerns content related to Battle for Azeroth.
War of the Thorns



Enlarge

King Anduin sitting on Stormwind Keep's throne.



Enlarge

Anduin and Genn sparring in Elegy.

As Anduin and Genn Greymane sparred in the royal garden "Garden (Stormwind Keep)"), Mathias Shaw interrupted their training to report that their plan to saturate Orgrimmar with SI:7 agents had been successful. Shaw stated that there has been a disagreement between Nathanos Blightcaller and High Overlord Varok Saurfang regarding the deployment of troops. Saurfang was said to have wanted an army deployed to Silithus, while the Blightcaller regarded it as a waste of resources. After relaying this information to High Priestess Tyrande Whisperwind, Anduin and Tyrande agreed this argument over war strategy indicated that the Horde had weaponized Azerite and were planning to secure a monopoly of the mineral in Kalimdor. Tyrande had begun to secretly amass a night elf army in Feralas to intercept the Horde forces should they march to Silithus.

The reported public fistfight between Nathanos and Varok and Nathanos' subsequent reprimanding seemed to confirm the Alliance leaders' suspicions of the Horde's capability to make Azerite weapons and that Warchief Sylvanas Windrunner had endorsed Saurfang's Silithus campaign. After deliberating with other Alliance leaders about their course of action, Anduin decided to endorse the deployment of the night elven army to protect Silithus. Anduin and the Alliance leaders would continue to create war strategies in Stormwind to prepare for the upcoming war. In the midst of their planning, Anduin and the Alliance leaders decided to take a break by visiting Lion's Rest. Their recess was interrupted by a Stormwind guard who reported the Horde was invading Ashenvale and that night elven refugees were being portaled into Stormwind. Realizing that the Horde had deceived them into weakening Ashenvale's defenses, the Alliance leaders coordinated with each other to accommodate as many refugees as possible and to reinforce the Ashenvale warfront. As the War of the Thorns progressed, Anduin became more restless. One sleepless night, he went to the map room to look over the map table and recalled which areas the night elves were losing ground in. Genn, who also couldn't sleep, joined him in contemplating about their dire situation. Anduin discussed with Genn that the Horde's influence would nearly dominate all of Kalimdor and should Sylvanas hold Darnassus and its citizens hostage, it could tear the Alliance apart or paralyze the Alliance from retaliating. Anduin told Genn that Sylvanas may coerce him to abandon Gilneas in favor of safeguarding a hostage Teldrassil, and that political manipulation would put them at odds. To Anduin's surprise, Genn told Anduin he would not withdraw his support from the Alliance even should such an event come to pass, as he would never betray the kindness of the night elves in order to reclaim his homeland. Genn stated he was committed to the protection of his Alliance allies even if it required sacrifice and that was something that Sylvanas did not understand about the living nor the Alliance. Anduin and Tyrande, who had overheard their conversation, were moved by Genn's words. Tyrande stated that even should her city fall, the Alliance will not be divided. However, she also bore bad news as recent reports stated that the night elves were making their stand at Astranaar.

Later on in the war, Tyrande received a missive that revealed that Malfurion Stormrage's wisp wall defense had failed and he was in the process of confronting Sylvanas alone. This new information had compelled Tyrande to fight by Malfurion's side despite Anduin's objections. When Anduin realized nothing he could say would dissuade her, he gave Tyrande hearthstone that he had attuned to Stormwind and told Tyrande to come back with Malfurion alive since their people would need their leadership in these troubled times now more than ever. Tyrande found Varok Saurfang kneeling and confronted him. She was successful and returned with a recovering Malfurion to Stormwind, but it became apparent when smoke was coming out of their portals that the evacuation efforts were running out of time. King Genn Greymane and Queen Mia evacuated the last of the refugees they could save before it became too dangerous to maintain the portals. When they returned, Genn revealed that the Horde had burned down Teldrassil. Anduin was among many who were shocked that Sylvanas would resort to such a tactic. Anduin regretted not taking the numerous chances he had to stop her in the past and felt the casualties of this war would forever haunt him until he could avenge them. Anduin resolved to stop Sylvanas permanently.
Battle for Lordaeron



Enlarge

High King Anduin leading the Alliance forces during the Battle for Lordaeron.

As High King of the Alliance, Anduin led the assault on Tirisfal Glades with King Genn Greymane as his second-in-command. Their forces managed to corner the Horde in the ruined Capital City, which they began to besiege. The battle was turning in the Alliance's favor until Warchief Sylvanas Windrunner launched a devastating counter-attack on an Alliance siege weapon, which rallied the Horde in driving back their enemies. Anduin ordered his forces to push forward and personally killed several Horde warriors until he was knocked down by a blow from Varok Saurfang, whom Genn swatted aside before trying to help Anduin and being incapacitated by a troll shaman. After fending off a troll warrior who tried to attack him while he was down, the young monarch looked around himself and saw his army wavering. Dropping his father's sword, the young king then conjured a massive dome of Light to heal his forces and to keep the Horde at bay. After the dome ceased, he rallied his reinvigorated forces and told his men to stand united for the Alliance, with both Horde and Alliance forces charging toward each other and resuming the battle.



In Lordaeron.



Anduin with his troops.



Anduin before putting his helmet on.



Anduin with his helmet on.



Anduin and Greymane oversees the battle.



Anduin wields Shalamayne against the Horde.



Anduin wielding Shalamayne.



Anduin dropping the sword before calling on the Light to heal his troops.



Anduin calling on the Light for the Alliance army.



Anduin summoning the Light.



Anduin leading the Alliance forces.



Anduin on the battlefield with his lion-shaped helmet.



Anduin confronts Sylvanas Windrunner in the Imperial chamber.



Enlarge

Anduin, Genn, and Jaina witnessing Sylvanas' blight on Capital City.

The Alliance army managed to overcome many of the Horde forces, but the tide of the battle turned when Sylvanas unleashed the Forsaken Blight on the battlefield and used her necromancy to summon an undead army from the fallen; forcing the Alliance to fall back. The Alliance was nearly routed until Lady Jaina Proudmoore arrived to neutralize the Blight and the undead with a powerful  spell and created an opening for the Alliance inside the city. Anduin and the other Alliance leaders beat back the Horde forces inside the city. King Anduin had personally ordered the capture of Varok Saurfang as a prisoner of war, who he respected. The Alliance pursued Sylvanas to the imperial chamber, where King Anduin demanded she surrender herself or die. However, Sylvanas had lured the Alliance leaders into a trap and had rigged Capital City to be blighted. While Sylvanas escaped to her gunship, the Alliance leaders were trapped in the collapsing imperial chamber. Fortunately, Jaina Proudmoore had mass teleported the Alliance leaders onto her own magical flying ship before the imperial chamber could fully saturate in blight. Anduin and other Alliance leaders returned to Stormwind Keep to plan their next move.
Kul Tiras



Enlarge

Anduin on Reverence during The Stormwind Extraction.



Enlarge

Anduin in Unity Square.

Following the Battle for Lordaeron, the Horde sent an elite force to rescue the Zandalari prisoners Talanji and Prophet Zul from the Stockades. At one point the agents had a close call when they only barely avoided Anduin, who was patrolling the streets on Reverence alongside several guards, but the infiltrators managed to escape with the prisoners to Zandalar. Fearing a possible alliance between the Zandalari and the Horde, Anduin sent Jaina on a mission to Kul Tiras "Kul Tiras (kingdom)") in the hopes of bringing it back into the Alliance and gaining access to its legendary fleet. Genn and the 7th Legion followed her and established a foothold on the island, for their plan must not fail.

After the Alliance settled in Kul Tiras's capital city of Boralus, Anduin arrived aboard the Wind's Redemption accompanied by his Lion's Guard and Captain Shwayder. He entrusted an adventurer with the task of preventing the Horde from allying with the Zandalari. To aid their efforts, he gave them full support of the Alliance's finest soldiers, the 7th Legion, under the leadership of High Commander Halford Wyrmbane. For situations that require a more subtle approach, he put the SI:7 and Mathias Shaw at their disposal.

At the end of Wyrmbane's campaign, Anduin provided congratulations to Wyrmbane and his team: Shandris Feathermoon, John J. Keeshan, Kelsey Steelspark, Magister Umbric, and Falstad Wildhammer for their work, but he knew more was to come.

Eventually, Katherine Proudmoore named Jaina the new Lord Admiral of Kul Tiras. At the ceremony, Anduin was introduced to a young woman, Taelia, who revealed that she was the daughter of Bolvar Fordragon and had been raised by the Proudmoores since the Third War. Shocked by this, Anduin asked for Taelia to come to Stormwind when she could so he could share stories about her father.
Lost Honor

At Stormwind Harbor, Anduin and Greymane watched as soldiers prepared for war and Greymane commented that soon they would have to start recruiting from farmers. Anduin had thought they were fighting for peace, but what he saw was just fighting. Genn reassures Anduin he's doing everything he can to stop Sylvanas, causing Anduin to give a resolute stare of disagreement out into the distance.

Anduin approached Saurfang in his cell to ask him why the orc had spared him at Lordaeron when he could have killed him and ended the war there. As Anduin asked him if he was wrong about Saurfang's honor and questioned if he wanted more innocents to suffer, Saurfang angrily shouted that he had given everything for the Horde but Sylvanas was destroying it, and what he wanted was to have his Horde back. Saurfang admitted to Anduin that the reason he had spared him was because he thought Anduin could stop Sylvanas, but as Anduin left the Stockades he told Saurfang he couldn't—not alone. As Anduin left, he kept Saurfang's cell door open.
Tides of Vengeance

This section concerns content related to Battle for Azeroth.

In time, Shandris Feathermoon, Maiev Shadowsong, and Sira Moonwarden sought to convince Anduin to commit Alliance forces to Darkshore to retake it from the Horde, but with the war focused on Zandalar, Arathi Highlands, and Kul Tiras, Anduin did not have the troops to do so. Despite Anduin's refusal, Genn wouldn't stand by. Citing all the aid that the night elves had given to the Gilneans in the past, Genn sent Gilnean forces to Darkshore to help.

Following the Battle of Dazar'alor and death of King Rastakhan, Anduin returned to Boralus and spoke with Shaw, Genn, Wyrmbane, and Jaina. Although there was victory, Anduin mourned the loss of life and worried about Gelbin Mekkatorque, who was barely surviving after his encounter with Jastor Gallywix. Anduin also worried that rather than drive a wedge between the Horde and Zandalari, killing Rastakhan had only ignited the Zandalari's fury. While Wyrmbane, Genn, and Shaw wanted to push the advantage and win the war in a matter of weeks, Jaina argued that attacking while the Zandalari mourned their king would make them no better than Sylvanas. Anduin resolved to keep fighting, but said that the Alliance must never lose sight of who they are and what they stand for.

After Genn, Shaw, and Wyrmbane left, Jaina and Anduin spoke in private about the losses in Dazar'alor and Mekkatorque's state of health, which neither Jaina nor Stormwind's priests could help. Anduin was glad to have his aunt back with them, and Jaina commented on how much had happened while she was away; specifically, she wanted to know about the rumors she had heard of her old friend Calia Menethil and what happened in Arathi Highlands. The two left to go somewhere private to talk.

As a token of Kul Tiras' renewed bonds with the Alliance, Lord Admiral Jaina Proudmoore gifted King Anduin his own Kul Tiran battleship.
Rise of Azshara

This section concerns content related to Battle for Azeroth.

After Alliance spies caught wind of Sylvanas Windrunner planning to assassinate Baine Bloodhoof, Jaina, recognizing that she owed Baine for returning Derek to her, agreed to Anduin's request to rescue Baine. Thus, she, along with Mathias Shaw and an Alliance champion headed off to Orgrimmar. During the rescue, the Alliance encountered and allied with Thrall and Varok Saurfang in order to rescue Baine. After liberating Baine from his execution and teleporting everyone out of Orgrimmar, Jaina and Shaw departed from the Horde in order to report the mission's success to Anduin.

As Saurfang's and Anduin's forces rallied together, Anduin and Saurfang had a private meeting in Dustwallow Marsh. Anduin asked what type of Warchief Saurfang would be. In response, Saurfang revealed that the Horde he joined was birthed by blood and tainted by corruption, the Horde was founded on the great lie that anything it did was honorable. He further remarked that it wasn't Thrall or Vol'jin but Sylvanas who inherited Blackhand's bloody legacy. However, Anduin denied this telling him them that his forces were the Horde but was interrupted by scornful Saurfang who remarked that he never knew honor. He further remarked that his loyalists deserved more and that he felt that the Horde was forever shackled to the past, which caused Anduin to point out that the Horde had no inclusive claim to regrets by invoking Arthas Menethil and Daelin Proudmoore. Saurfang was dismissive, however, pointing out that nothing could close the chasm between the Horde and Alliance, which made Anduin ask what they were fighting for. After a moment Saurfang and Anduin rallied their forces to break the cycle and defend Azeroth, with "For Azeroth" as their rallying cry.

Thus to protect Azeroth and depose of Sylvanas, the Horde revolutionaries and Alliance planned to strike at Orgrimmar and to that end set up camp in Razor Hill. In response to Sylvanas's forces collapsing part of the tunnel between Razor Hill and Orgrimmar, Anduin turned to Tinkmaster Overspark and Gazlowe to breach the canyon. With their forces established within the Dranosh'ar Blockade, Anduin turned to dealing with Sylvanas's spies and protecting their siege weapons. Knowing that Orgrimmar's greatest weakness was its multiple entrances, Saurfang's strategy relied on attacking all three entrances at once. To that end, he and Anduin directed for Genn Greymane's forces to attack Orgrimmar from the Northern Barrens, Lor'themar Theron and Shandris Feathermoon to lead their forces to attack the city from Azshara, and for Anduin, Saurfang, and Thrall to lead their forces to attack Orgrimmar from Durotar. They further ordered Mayla Highmountain to lead her people to protect Thunder Bluff in case of Sylvanas launching a counterattack.

However, before the battle could commence, Saurfang recognizing Sylvanas's loyalists as his brothers and sisters in the Horde and unwilling to spill more Horde blood challenged Sylvanas to Mak'gora. When Sylvanas questioned why she should accept his challenge Saurfang merely pointed out that she wanted him to suffer, causing Sylvanas to wordlessly agree. While Sylvanas armed herself, Saurfang was granted Thrall's axe and Shalamayne by Anduin. Sylvanas initially had the upper hand against Saurfang, however, when she began to mock him about hope, Saurfang got his second wind by declaring that Sylvanas couldn't kill hope. As Saurfang turned the tide against Sylvanas, he claimed that she failed to kill hope at Teldrassil, failed in getting the Horde and Alliance to keep killing each other at Lordaeron, he further declared that the Horde would endure, that Horde was strong and was able to slash Sylvanas across her eye. This turn caused an enraged Sylvanas to declare that Horde was nothing, that they were all nothing. Sylvanas then killed Saurfang quickly with a blast of unknown magic and abandoned the Horde altogether. In the wake of Saurfang's death, Anduin, Thrall, and Zekhan, carried his body into the now opened gates of Orgrimmar as the majority of Sylvanas's forces had declared for the revolution following Sylvanas's betrayal.

In front of Grommash Hold, Thrall and Anduin served as the speakers for Saurfang's memorial service and Anduin departed from Orgrimmar after the service was over. Thrall proclaimed that Varok would be brought to Nagrand as the High Overlord would have wanted.
Visions of N'zoth

The war between the Horde and the Alliance was over when Sylvanas abandoned the Horde, but the threat of N'Zoth remained. Anduin met with Baine, Mayla Highmountain, Shaw, Valeera, as well as Magni who came with Wrathion as his new advisor to help to deal with the Old God. Wrathion told him that the armies would be useless and that N'Zoth would strike at the minds. Afterward, Magni requested from Anduin to give him back Fearbreaker which the young king agreed to.

Following the fall of N'Zoth, Anduin called for the Alliance leaders to gather in Stormwind. During this meeting, Anduin declared that with the armistice signed, the Fourth War was over. However, Tyrande Whisperwind rejected this and declared that the Black Moon still cried out for vengeance, and it would not stop until the Horde answered for its treachery. In response, Anduin reminded her that further bloodshed would not bring back the fallen and suggested that they must renew hope and forge a future for those who survived. Tyrande challenged this view by asking what would happen when the next warchief mustered an army and asked if hope would save him if Stormwind burned. Though Anduin acknowledged that it was difficult to trust, he expressed his hopes for the future by revealing that the Horde changed when they abandoned the Warchief position for a council style leadership. In turn, Tyrande told him his faith was naive and she should only sign a treaty when it was written in Sylvanas's blood. Genn believed that there was truth in Tyrande's words and that though they had peace today, soon enough the Horde would sound the drums of war once more. Though realizing that not all would walk the path to peace, Anduin believed that it was the best way to build a future.

Following the meeting, Anduin remained tense and revealed to Jaina that while she found peace in her heart, he couldn't say the same about himself and his belief that neither Tyrande nor Genn would consider the war to be over until Sylvanas was brought to justice. In response, Jaina expressed her belief that Sylvanas couldn't hide for long with Kul Tiran fleet scouring the seas and the SI:7 searching every dark corner of Azeroth. However, Anduin revealed that he wasn't concerned that Sylvanas would remain in hiding but that she would not. Anduin then changed the subject by asking Jaina about a messenger from Kul Tiras. He subsequently learned that Taelia Fordragon sought to see Stormwind City and learn more about her father, Bolvar Fordragon. The pair then got into a brief argument about telling Taelia that he had become the new Lich King; with Anduin against the idea of telling her the truth, believing that it would break her heart. In the end, Jaina decided that the decision remained in Anduin's hands but warned him that if she learned that the truth was kept from her, it would hurt her all the more.
Shadowlands

This section concerns content related to Shadowlands.
Shadows Rising

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.



Enlarge

Anduin on the Shadows Rising cover art.

Feeling crushed over the knowledge that Tyrande Whisperwind and Malfurion Stormrage had decided to remain in Nordrassil, while leaving all of his missives unread, Anduin decided to take Reverence for a ride to Westfall with Mathias Shaw. After hearing explosions, the pair investigated and discovered that Jago had taken advantage of a farmer's son hospitality near Saldean's Farm by using the barn to brew moonshine, which had caused the explosion that destroyed the building's roof. Upon seeing Anduin, Jago tried to attack the young king, blaming him for not stopping Sylvanas at the Gathering. Jago was intercepted by Mathias and passed out soon after. After briefly speaking with Alleria about Sylvanas, Anduin and Shaw soon departed for Stormwind.

Anduin then attended a meeting with Genn Greymane and Turalyon in the crypts of the Cathedral of Light, in which the corpses of retrieved of SI:7 members suggested that dark rangers were on Zandalar. This knowledge caused Turalyon to wonder if Sylvanas sought vengeance on Queen Talanji for pulling her support to the Banshee Queen, while Genn believed that Talanji was still working with Sylvanas and was providing her shelter on the island. Anduin then declared Turalyon as the Lord Commander of the Alliance forces, with the task of finding Sylvanas Windrunner and to use whatever means he must, something that Genn told him was a wise choice.

Jaina Proudmoore, knowing about his concerns with the lack of progress from Turalyon and Alleria Windrunner in finding Sylvanas Windrunner, sought to counsel him towards patience but none of her arguments were able to ease his troubled heart. Thus, when Anduin requested that she personally check on the pair for an update, she agreed. Jaina was then disturbed to see that the pair had been interrogating a man by having Turalyon use the Light to shackle him in place, while Alleria's Void powers invaded his mind. After hearing the information they learned, which proved that an agent of Sylvanas was heading towards Zandalar, Jaina departed with the intention of informing Anduin about the information and exactly how it was obtained. She further revealed her belief that their tactics represented him poorly and by sanctioning them, she questioned what it said about them.

After a moment of thought, Anduin said that they would do whatever they must to bring murders to justice. That it said that they shall not forget those lost in war, never forgot Teldrassil, Lordaeron, and the mak'gora. He then reminded Jaina how not so long ago she was not above the swinging the harsh hammer of retribution and asked if she had forgotten. Jaina retorted that she had not forgotten but reminded him how his father had once warned Vol'jin to uphold honor or be ended. She further remarked that one of her brightest wishes was for Anduin's reign to endure and be remembered fondly, for more than anything that he was remembered in the same breath as his father.

Anduin responded by remarking that difficult decisions have to be made and that he trusted Turalyon and Alleria. He then asked her if their statues would preside over Stormwind if they were without honor. This caused Jaina to remark that people change. The young king agreed but once more declared that he trusted Turalyon and Alleria, despite the misfortunes that have befallen them. He then pointed out that Stormwind would not exist without them and that they were woven into the very fabric of Stormwind's history. Recognizing that there would no swaying him, Jaina told Anduin that clarity and time are the final editors of all stories, as she would know.

He discretely sent Valeera Sanguinar to ask Baine Bloodhoof if the Horde had any knowledge of Sylvanas being in Zandalar, to which Baine responded negatively. Anduin also sent Shaw to obtain further intelligence on Banshee loyalists within Zandalar, while also sending Turalyon and Alleria to Boralus should nothing be discovered on the Zandalari coast. They were soon interrupted by Flynn Fairwind, who reported that Shaw had been taken prisoner by the Zandalari Empire. When Turalyon and Alleria sought to respond with war against the Zandalari, convinced that they were working with Sylvanas Windrunner, Jaina Proudmoore called upon them to not add fuel on an already kindly fire and risk the treaty. Jaina then stated she would use the treaty itself before turning to the blade.

Thus, the Horde Council received a missive from Jaina where she revealed that they were aware of the unrest in Zandalar, their belief that Talanji was working with Sylvanas, and that they had requested to speak with the council. In the end, the council voted unanimously in favor of Thrall and Ji Firepaw to meet with Jaina and Anduin in hopes that it would aid in the hunt and capture of Sylvanas Windrunner. Thus, they subsequently met on a boat at seas off the coast Zandalar. In a show of open trust, Thrall revealed that he had met with Tyrande Whisperwind, stunning both Jaina and Anduin. When Anduin accused the Horde of betraying the Alliance by allowing Sylvanas to have a refuge on Zandalar, Ji became outraged. While Thrall was quick to smooth over Anduin's worries, the information they received allowed the orc and pandaren to realize that the Banshee loyalists were aiding the Widow's Bite. When Anduin mentioned how Mathias Shaw was taken prisoner by the Zandalari Empire, Ji reassured the young king that the Horde Council did not execute prisoners without trial. However, Anduin retorted that he wished to have Shaw returned soon. When the waves threatened to upend the boat, Jaina ported everyone to safety.

Feeling the need to be a boy again, Anduin secretly traveled to Goldshire under the alias Jerek where he was caught by Jaina. After he explained himself, Jaina told him that she understood as he had caught her red-handed too.

After the Horde destroyed the Widow's Bite and saved Bwonsamdi, they released Shaw and sent him back to Stormwind with Sira Moonwarden, who was captured at the end of the conflict and who Thrall wanted to be sent to Tyrande. After Shaw revealed what Thrall wanted of her, Anduin agreed but first, he sought a word with her. Anduin demanded to know where Sylvanas was, and Sira declared that she was nowhere they could find her and that they had already lost. In response, Anduin attempted to use magic against her which caused a look of fear on Jaina's face shook Shaw to the core, while Sira just laughed, declaring once more that they had already lost, and that Anduin would serve well. She was subsequently placed in the Stormwind Stockades and Anduin sent a missive, informing Tyrande that he had a gift from the Horde for her.

Later, Anduin wrote a letter to Mathias Shaw and Flynn Fairwind, granting them temporary leave from their regular duties and assigning them on a mission to inventory artifacts hidden across the Eastern Kingdoms.
Captivity in the Maw



Enlarge

Sylvanas Windrunner talking to the imprisoned Anduin at the Tremaculum within the Maw.

When the Scourge began to rampage across Azeroth, Anduin was among the leaders captured by Sylvanas' Mawsworn kyrian and taken into the Maw, the realm of torment in the Shadowlands. In his absence, Turalyon took up the position of regent and protector of Stormwind with the support of the House of Nobles.

Within the Maw, Anduin, Baine, Thrall, and Jaina were held captive and tortured under the personal oversight of Sylvanas and the ruler of the Maw, the Jailer. According to Thrall, it sometimes felt as if the group was being tested for something. Anduin was held captive in the Tremaculum, where his imprisonment was overseen by Phael the Afflictor. Jaina tried repeatedly to rescue her "nephew" but failed due to the large number of forces guarding him. Even throughout their torments, Anduin insisted to Jaina that their allies on Azeroth would come to rescue them. This eventually proved true when adventurers and the Knights of the Ebon Blade entered the Maw. Thrall and Jaina accompanied adventurers to the Tremaculum, where Sylvanas was having a conversation with Anduin and expressed disappointment in his "narrow vision" before departing. The heroes freed Anduin from his bonds and the group returned to the Forlorn Respite, where they learned from the captured Tormented Amalgamation that there was a possible way out of the Maw in the form of a waystone at Zovaal's Cauldron, which was also the location where Baine was being held captive. On the way to the Cauldron, the group encountered Helya, who blasted them into the River of Souls. The party made it out of the river to Zovaal's Cauldron just in time to see the Jailer drop Baine off a cliff. They subsequently discovered that the Mawsworn had placed a curse on the High Chieftain's soul and had to work together to save his life. With an invisibility spell by Jaina, the party made it to the waystone, which began to react to the adventurer's presence. Anduin remarked that although he had studied titan artifacts, the waystone seemed to be made by a different hand. The adventurer began charging the waystone, an effort that was noticed by the Jailer and prompted him to send his Mawsworn armies to stop them. When the party was about to be overwhelmed, Anduin proclaimed that the Light was with him even in the Maw and called down a barrier of holy magic which held off the Mawsworn long enough for the champion to escape to Oribos. The Jailer declared this to be "interesting", and when Anduin claimed that he had failed, the Jailer calmly responded "No... I have precisely what I need." The Jailer subsequently brought Anduin, Thrall, Jaina, and Baine into his tower of Torghast for further torture. The Jailer specifically wanted Anduin because his heroic personal qualities would allow him to enter the realm of Bastion for the purposes of the Jailer's plan, The king's display of selflessness and command of the Light at the waystone had inadvertently revealed that he would be the perfect tool.

After starting to aid the Shadowlands' covenants and becoming known as Maw Walkers, adventurers repeatedly ventured into Torghast with the guidance of Bolvar Fordragon (who used the Helm of Domination to peer into the tower), rescued Baine, Jaina, and Thrall, and brought them to the safety of Oribos. However, Anduin was taken deeper into the tower than the others, and the heroes initially found no sign of him. During the rescue of Thrall, the Maw Walkers eavesdropped on a private conversation between the Jailer and Sylvanas in which the Jailer proclaimed that they had to begin preparation of their new "weapon". Sylvanas convinced the Jailer to leave him to her, arguing that bringing their "instrument" around into believing in their cause would yield superior results compared to simply enslaving him. In the Twisting Corridors, the Maw Walkers recovered Anduin's ring, an emblem from his armor, and a length of chain used to hold him, but not the king himself.



Enlarge

Sylvanas drawing Kingsmourne upon Anduin.

Shortly after, Sylvanas visited Anduin in his cell deep within Torghast. Anduin told her that he was tired of her lies and games. In response, Sylvanas frankly explained that she and the Jailer intended to use Anduin as a weapon to achieve their goal: breaking the unjust system of Death and replacing it with one that is fair and in which everyone would have control of their fate. Anduin questioned why Sylvanas believed that she wasn't simply being used by the Jailer. In response, the banshee gave the king her ultimatum: join them willingly or be made to serve. The entire conversation was remotely observed by Bolvar, the Maw Walkers, and the leaders in Oribos through the Helm of Domination. They agreed that they had to remain patient and cautious, since the Jailer might decide to "discard" his prisoner if he believed his prize to be in jeopardy. Sylvanas visited Anduin again during his captivity and would tell him her life story. He wondered why she was telling it to him, and ultimately realized that it was because she saw her brother Lirath in him. Still, he refused to aid her and the Jailer, and instead wanted her to release him.

Around the same time as the Jailer's ally Denathrius was defeated, the Jailer had Shalamayne reforged into mourneblade named Kingsmourne, which he infused with the remnants of Arthas Menethil's soul. The Jailer told Sylvanas that they had to take a more direct approach with forging Anduin into their next weapon. The banshee returned to Anduin's prison to offer him a last choice between willing cooperation or forced servitude. Anduin realized that the reason Sylvanas tried so hard to persuade him was because there was a part of her mortality still haunting her and she wanted to give him the choice she'd never had. Sylvanas interrupted him and thrust Kingsmourne on him while telling him to submit. Anduin was not fazed, replied that Sylvanas held all the power, and told her to make her choice.

In Oribos, Baine argued that the Azerothians should attack Torghast and free the king right away, but Thrall countered that they weren't ready to launch an assault on the Maw. Jaina stated that they would work with their allies in Oribos to rally the covenants and, with their help, hopefully stop the Jailer and save Anduin.
Chains of Domination

In the end, Sylvanas made the choice to forcibly turn Anduin into an unwilling vessel for the Jailer. He was equipped with Kingsmourne as well as a suit of armor covered in Domination runes that suppressed his will and allowed the Jailer to control him directly, but it was Arthas' soul within Kingsmourne that served as the main source of Anduin's Domination. Each time the Jailer dominated Anduin's will, he felt himself slipping further away, as though everything he had once been was being consumed by darkness.

Disguised as his normal self, Anduin traveled to Elysian Hold in Bastion and asked for an audience with the kyrian Archon Kyrestia. His inherent compassion and great heart shone strong enough to conceal the Jailer's Domination of his mind and allow him to bypass the kyrian security measures. On the way, Anduin passed the Forsworn Uther, who reacted to the sight of the king by reaching up and touching the Frostmourne-caused wound on his own chest. At Archon's Rise, Kyrestia recognized the Jailer's presence in Anduin and demanded that he release the king from his grasp. Anduin plunged Kingsmourne into the ground, creating a shockwave that stunned the nearby Paragons, before leaping at Kyrestia, stabbing her through the chest, and extracting her covenant sigil—the second of five desired by the Jailer. Anduin briefly returned to his old self and reacted with horror at what he had done before the Domination runes on his armor flared up and placed him under the Jailer's control once again, after which he returned to Torghast to deliver the sigil to the Jailer.



Anduin, the fallen king, in Torghast.



Anduin leaping at Kyrestia.



Moments before plunging Kingsmourne into the Archon.



Anduin, in a moment of lucidity, reacting with horror to his attack on Kyrestia.



Delivering the sigil to the Jailer.



Enlarge

Anduin claims the Winter Queen's sigil.

The Jailer subsequently sent the Mawsworn to attack Ardenweald and seize the Winter Queen's sigil, and the covenants united to defend the forest. Jaina and Bolvar joined the defense in the hopes of saving Anduin, but saw no sign of him on the battlefield. The covenants managed to push out the Mawsworn, but Anduin snuck behind enemy lines, breached the Heart of the Forest, and absorbed the queen's sigil into Kingsmourne. He created a Maw barrier to keep Jaina and Bolvar from reaching him, and they could only watch as he opened a portal and escaped back to the Jailer.



Enlarge

Anduin severs the Primus' sigil.

A Maw Walker accompanied by Bonesmith Heirmir later traveled to Torghast and gave the imprisoned Primus his sigil back, freeing him from his imprisonment as the Runecarver. The Jailer immediately noticed this, teleported into the Runecarver's Oubliette, and began battling the Primus while Heirmir and the hero fought the Jailer's accompanying minions. As the battle progressed, the Jailer stunned Heirmir and the Maw Walker and summoned Anduin, who resurrected all of the Mawsworn that Heirmir and the hero had killed. After he and his master launched a coordinated attack to stun the Primus, Anduin used Kingsmourne to sever the sigil from the Primus' body and launch it into the Jailer's waiting hand. Having now obtained all but one of the sigils he needed, the Jailer teleported himself, Anduin, and his other minions away.



Enlarge

Anduin during the battle in the Crucible, wearing the full set of Domination armor.

Sylvanas later briefed Anduin on the plan to claim the final sigil from the Arbiter: Sylvanas would deal with the forces of Azeroth atop Torghast, and once they reached the Crucible "Crucible (Oribos)") in Oribos, Anduin would defend the Jailer while he completed his ritual to break the Arbiter's defenses. Anduin lamented the control the Jailer had over him, but Sylvanas told him that their sacrifices would be worth it once they achieved their goal. Anduin cut her off and said that the two of them would both be "lost" by the time that happened. He then expressed his hope that his friends would remember him the way he'd been, not what Sylvanas had made him become. Unbeknownst to his captors, Anduin secretly used the Light to enchant his father's compass, imbuing it with the memory of his conversation with Sylvanas.



Enlarge

The compass displaying Anduin's message.

The Jailer's plan proceeded as intended: he ascended to the Crucible and broke through the Arbiter's defenses while Anduin was forced to battle Jaina, Thrall, and Bolvar on the central platform and Sylvanas kept the Maw Walkers occupied on the surrounding pillars. After claiming the Arbiter's sigil, the Jailer opened a portal to Zereth Mortis and revealed his true goal: not to give everyone free will as Sylvanas had believed, but to remake reality into one where all would serve him. Sylvanas turned against him upon hearing this, but he left her at the mercy of the Maw Walkers and their allies and left with Anduin through the portal, telling him to "Be the first to witness reality's end". Moments before he disappeared through the gateway, Anduin managed to resist the Jailer's control just enough to drop Varian's compass on the ground, allowing Jaina to find it. She brought it back to Keeper's Respite, where she and Bolvar magically examined it and unlocked the message Anduin had left for them. Jaina and Thrall concluded that there was still some part of the king resisting the Jailer's Domination and resolved to save him no matter what it took.
Eternity's End



Enlarge

Anduin and Dausegne at the Forge of Afterlives.

In Zereth Mortis, the Jailer commanded Anduin to travel to the Forge of Afterlives and use Domination to enslave its protector Dausegne in order to open the way to the Jailer's ultimate goal, the Sepulcher of the First Ones. Upon hearing that Anduin had been sighted near the Forge, Jaina, Baine, and a Maw Walker hurried there in the hopes that they could free the king from the Jailer's control. However, before they could get to him, the Jailer arrived in person, forced the dominated Dausegne to disable the Forge, and used it to transport himself, Anduin, and Dausegne directly to the Sepulcher before sealing the way behind them.

Back in Oribos, Uther the Lightbringer helped Sylvanas awaken from the coma the Jailer had put her in, allowing her to lend her help to the Maw Walkers' allies (after Uther convinced them to trust her). Sylvanas stated that they had no chance of stopping the Jailer without a means to resist his Domination magic and that freeing Anduin might be the key. Uther believed that since Sylvanas had held Kingsmourne, the mourneblade that bound Anduin to the Jailer's will, her presence could also help to free him. Alongside the Maw Walkers, Uther, Jaina, and Sylvanas headed into the Sepulcher, where they ultimately confronted Anduin at Domination's Grasp.

In the ensuing battle, Anduin periodically used Kingsmourne to separate the Maw Walkers' souls from their bodies, allowing them to assist the king's own struggling soul and restore his willpower, in turn allowing him to manifest the source of his Domination—the Remnant of a Fallen King—from the mourneblade. At the end of the battle, the Jailer forced Anduin to plunge Kingsmourne into the ground, enveloping him in smoke as the sword began draining his soul and the Jailer whispered to him to fulfill his "final purpose": annihilation. As Anduin struggled, the Light sent him a vision showing he was not alone. He saw his father Varian appear at his side to remind him that Shalamayne had not been forged by darkness, but by valor. He then saw Varok Saurfang appear at his other side to add that the sword had been forged by honor as well. Varian continued that both of their legacies along with that of Shalamayne were with Anduin. With Varian and Varok's help, Anduin was able to get a firm grip on Kingsmourne and—with a great exertion—split it in half, turning it back into Shalla'tor and Ellemayne and finally freeing him from the Jailer's control, with his Domination armor fading away like smoke. Splitting Kingsmourne also released the last remnant of Arthas' soul, which faded away as Anduin and the heroes watched.

.png "Anduin in the Sepulcher.")

Anduin in the Sepulcher.



Varok and Varian helping Anduin regain control.



Kingsmourne broken and Anduin freed.

Although his will was now his own again, Anduin was haunted by the lingering effects of Domination and the memories of the things the Jailer had made him do. The heroes brought him to Haven in Zereth Mortis in the hopes that he could tell them how to counteract the Jailer's power, but he stated that he didn't know how. The group turned to another plan by first gathering phrases from the language of the First Ones and then meeting in the Chamber of First Reflection in Bastion, where memories could be drawn out and expunged and where those who had suffered from Domination in the past could infuse the memories of what had allowed them to resist into the shards of the Helm of Domination. Anduin—who wished he'd known about the place earlier—volunteered for the ritual after Bolvar and Darion Mograine, stating that he wanted to do whatever it took to help defeat the Jailer. When he gazed into his memories, however, he was quickly overwhelmed by his painful memories of the Maw and forced to stop. Sylvanas recognized his struggle from her own experiences and asked to "offer perspective" by describing how she'd once broken free of Arthas' control and sought revenge against him.



Enlarge

Anduin peering into his memories in the Chamber of First Reflection.

This caused Anduin to understand that everyone who'd been affected by Domination got the strength to resist from something, be it nobility or vengeance, and that he had friends who were willing to stand with him. He attempted the ritual again, this time managing to draw out a Mawbound Monstrosity which the Maw Walker defeated, allowing the king to infuse his resistance into the shards. Afterward, Sylvanas told him that this wouldn't be the end of his suffering, but at least a step forward. The group then returned to Torghast to meet with the Primus, who used the language and the memories to reforge the Helm of Domination into the Crown of Wills, an instrument allowing them all to become resistant to Domination.

With the resistance granted by the Crown, the Maw Walkers managed to defeat the Jailer within the Sepulcher. Afterward, Sylvanas was brought to Oribos to be judged for her crimes by the Arbiter "Arbiter (title)") Pelagos. Anduin and his friends attended the trial, during which Sylvanas handed herself over to the judgment of her nemesis Tyrande. Pelagos asked if anyone presented objected to this. Anduin looked conflicted but remained silent, and the trial ended with Tyrande sending Sylvanas to the Maw to free all of the souls trapped therein.



Enlarge

Jaina, Anduin, and Thrall at Sylvanas' trial.

Anduin told the Maw Walkers that he couldn't simply go back to being the person he'd once been and that he still needed time to recover from the trauma of the Jailer's control. He thanked them for helping to set him free and asked them to continue aiding the Alliance and Horde and defending Azeroth. In the Crucible "Crucible (Oribos)"), Genn Greymane, who'd come to the trial as well, told Anduin not to blame himself for the things the Jailer had made him do. Anduin tried to argue that he should've been stronger, but Genn replied that he was the strongest man he knew. Anduin stated that he couldn't return to Azeroth yet and that he trusted Turalyon to watch over the Alliance and Genn to watch over their loved ones in his absence. Genn protested at first, arguing that Stormwind's people needed him, but then accepted Anduin's decision and asked him to take the time he needed and come home when he was ready.

Anduin ultimately made the decision to enter the Maw to find Sylvanas. However, after some time, Sylvanas questioned as to why he was there, with so many people awaiting his return. In response, Anduin admitted that while his friends believe his hands are clean, he doesn't feel that they are cleaned, causing Sylvanas to point out it was perilous to confuse "what you are made to do with what you choose to do." However, Anduin countered that he couldn't help it, as it all blurred together into something horrific and exhilarating, that it sickened him that such satisfaction may have been his own. This allowed Sylvanas to realize that Anduin had arrived to aid her because he feared that he might not be who he thought he was. Anduin further revealed that he was afraid to call on the Light, concerned that it wouldn't answer him. After Sylvanas reassured him about his own free will and choices, Anduin departed, as they each wished each other farewell.
Dragonflight

This section concerns content related to Dragonflight.

Anduin has remained missing for the three years since the Jailer's defeat. Genn has followed up many rumors regarding sightings of the young king, but none have turned up anything substantial. Genn has concluded that Anduin won't be found until he's ready to be found, and in the meantime Turalyon remains in his position as regent. In addition to hiding from the SI:7, Anduin evaded Blacktalon agents sent by Wrathion to bring him home, not wanting to distract him from his dream of restoring his flight.

A time-displaced version of young Anduin appears in the Everywhen Inn in Thaldraszus, being teleported there when he was playing Hearthstone "Hearthstone (game)") with his father. He asked adventurers to get back his lucky card that dragon whelps stole from him. In the meantime, he played Hearthstone with Innkeeper Bob, who also provided him with juice. Once the adventurer recovered the card, he took a portal home to his time.

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.

In time, Anduin's wonderings brought him to Stormsong Valley within Kul Tiras, where under his alias Jerek he came to work for the Feldon family. During this time he came to develop a friendship with Rodrik Feldon, who recognized him as a fellow veteran of the Fourth War and sought to help him in what ways he could. As Anduin headed to join the Feldon family for their Harvest Festival, he discovered the town had come under attack by raiders. As he rushed to aid the townsfolk, he bore witness to Rodrik being mortally wounded and tried and failed to call upon the light to heal him. Anduin promised the dying Rodrik that he would take care of the rest of his family.

Following Rodrik's death, Anduin remained working for, and grew closer to, the Feldon family, with little Cynda Feldon coming to see him as a part of the family. Anduin, who remained haunted by his deeds under Zovaal's control, was stunned by this and feared that he would merely let her down. Despite his fears as time passed, Anduin found himself becoming at ease as his nightmares dwindled, anxiety lessened, and his flashbacks to carrying out Zovaal's will all but ceasing. However, a part of Anduin knew that this sense of peace would not last and he was proven right when the town, once again, came under attack. Despite his fears and doubts, Anduin wielding Shalamayne clashed against the raiders until they all had been slain.

In the aftermath, a voice spoke to Anduin and caused images to fill his mind, causing him to realize that he was being called away from Stormsong Valley. After sharing his goodbyes with the Feldon family, Anduin departed to follow that call.

By the time around Gilneas was reclaimed by the Alliance, Anduin was spotted by SI:7 buying supplies in Ratchet. As he headed south, he noticed and lost the agents trailing him in the Barrens. Shaw later shared his findings with Genn, who directed him to inform Jaina of the situation.
The War Within

This section concerns content related to The War Within.



Enlarge

Anduin key art.



Enlarge

Anduin in The War Within Key Art.

Anduin Wrynn has wandered alone for the last few years, lost in his own thoughts and grappling with the experience he'd been through. Troubled by strange visions and voices, Anduin was found by Thrall in Silithus. He sat alone, still in trauma from what the Jailer did to him through Domination magic, and insecure in his faith in the Light. Thrall called on him to join him in aiding the source of the visions. After a brief conversation and convincing, Anduin agreed to stand with him and help, as they observed the Sword of Sargeras.

Afterward, he traveled with Thrall and Jaina to Magni's Encampment and entered the Chamber of Heart to speak with the Speaker of Azeroth. Determined to solve the mystery of the Radiant Song, Magni carried out a ritual to speak with Azeroth, where to the shock of the others he abruptly collapsed. With his wounds beyond Anduin's knowledge, he decided that they had to consult the mages of Dalaran. Upon their arrival, Anduin was relieved that Magni was stable but was uncertain about how long he would take to recover.

Soon after Magni awakened, the Council of Six moved Dalaran to Khaz Algar, where it was ultimately destroyed by Xal'atath. Alongside the other survivors Anduin found himself fighting against a nerubian ambush on the Tranquil Strand. As Queensguard Zirix engaged Magni battle, Anduin gathered reinforcements, and joined Magni in battle. After Zirix and his forces were driven off, Anduin joined the other survivors in Dornogal, where he couldn't help but feel as if destruction was following him, and sought an inn so that they could rest and get their bearings. As Thrall and Jaina departed to rally reinforcements for the fight against Xal'atath, Anduin decided to remain behind to help make the survivors feel safe.

Grateful for being granted respite within Dornogal, Anduin and Magni established themselves within the Stonelight Rest. As they recovered, Magni encouraged Anduin enjoy the break from being king and figure himself out. As they conversed Anduin mentioned that the earthen referred to him as Arathi, but both were confused as how they would know of the Arathi Empire, and they questioned if the Arathi somehow had a presence on Khaz Algar. Sometime later he aided in the defense of the Proscenium.

After returning to Dornogal, Anduin helped tend to the wounded and learned that an Arathi armada arrived on Khaz Algar a number of years ago, and was said to have formed a settlement in the caverns beneath the island. While Anduin desired to see the Arathi for himself, and hoped that they could prove to be allies in the fight Xal'atath, Alleria Windrunner discouraged him, advising him not to abandon the measure of safety in Dornogal by chasing shadows in the dark.



In Magni's Encampment.



Anduin and his allies after arriving in Dornogal.



Anduin and Magni in Stonelight Rest.



Enlarge

Anduin looking out at Beledar.

In time, Anduin set off to Hallowfall with the intention of restoring contact between the earthen and Arathi and securing the Arathi's aid for the war. After entering Hallowfall, he was stunned at the sight of Beledar, and even more so as the Radiant Song reached them, causing him to wonder if there was a connection between the two. After arriving at Dunelle's Kindness, Anduin and his allies meet with General Steelstrike and Faerin. Eager for allies against the nerubians, both sides began to work with one another. As Anduin set off to aid the Arathi he learned of Beledar and the Arathi Empire, and was quick to see how they hailed from the old Arathor and Quel'Thalas.

After defending the Aegis Wall, Anduin and his new allies turned to defending Arathi airships at Tenir's Ascent. As they fought, Anduin expressed his amazement at what the Arathi had been able to achieve in Hallowfall and declared that they would make strong allies. At Anduin's direction, champions set off to slay the Siegelord Xerosh, where they found themselves unexpectedly joined by Alleria. Though victorious over their foe, Alleria was unimpressed that Anduin had departed from Dornogal. In the aftermath, Anduin assisted the Lamplighters in lighting the dawntower, and was stunned to discover Beledar entering a void state.

While Alleria scouted ahead, Anduin and the others made their way to Lorel's Crossing, where he found himself unsettled by Beledar's shadow. While helping the town against the kobyss, Anduin was surprised to discover that Faerin was a Lothar, while she surprised that he was a king. When the nearby dawntower became corrupted, the trio went off to investigate, where they reunited with Alleria discovered that Aelric Leid and the Order of Night were the culprits. After Aelric escaped, they looked for clues on the order's plans and learned that they had a hideout nearby. They were attacked by shadow creatures, and while Alleria held them off, Anduin and Faerin went to investigate their base. As they clashed against the Order of Night, Anduin tried and failed to call upon the light. When Anduin declared that he was no longer worthy of it, Faerin countered that she didn't believe giving up was in his nature. When Anduin revealed that he had been controlled by darkness and that a part of him enjoyed it, Faerin questioned if he had truly enjoyed hurting people or simply no longer having to agonize over every thought and action, causing Anduin to become thoughtful. As they left the order's cave, their path was barred by one of Xal'atath's illusions, but Alleria arrived and dispelled it. When they returned to the surface, Beledar shifted back towards light. Faerin and Anduin cleansed the Dawntower's flame, while Alleria waited outside.



Enlarge

Anduin, Faerin Lothar, and Alleria Windrunner at the Empire's Edge Tavern in Mereldar.

With the Dawntower purified, they returned to Mereldar to warn General Steelstrike of the order's schemes. With the general warned, they found themselves with a brief moment for respite and went to a nearby inn to relax. When champions inquire what's on his mind, he questions how they can always be so helpful and questions how they could even look at him after he tried to kill them "Anduin Wrynn (tactics)"). When the champion points out that it wasn't him, Anduin admits that he felt like him and was unsure if the emotions he felt were his own or Zovaal's. He also admitted that he was still feeling about the knowledge of the Arathi and questioned if the Arathi Empire would be a future concern. After finishing their drinks, Alleria tasked an adventurer with collecting propaganda from the order and delivering it to Steelstrike, while she had a talk with Anduin. Alleria was still upset that he left Dornogal, but Anduin felt obligated to investigate the rumors of an Arathi settlement after the decimation of the human kingdoms. He told her that he had been hearing the Radiant Song and believed it was related to Beledar. He also revealed that the Arathi's crystals were similar to Azerite and realized that their Day of Darkness began when Sargeras plunged his sword into Azeroth.

After being alerted to an attack by the kobyss, they mobilized to the Veneration Grounds. Aelric was conducting a ritual in an attempt to corrupt the Eternal Flame and guarded himself with kobyss. After slaying the kobyss empowering Aelric's barrier, Alleria was able to bring it down, allowing the adventurer to slay the cultist. Shortly after cleaning up the Veneration Grounds, they were alerted to another attack by the Harbinger's forces at Livia's Patience They arrived too late and saw that the town was overrun by nerubians. Steelstrike tasked them with holding off the nerubians, while she got the Reckoning "The Reckoning (airship)") ready for take off. After getting the survivors aboard, the Reckoning prepared to launch, but Anduin spotted the nerubians aiming a void-empowered ballista at it. He leapt down and destroyed their weapon, but was swarmed by nerubians. Anduin was subsequently imprisoned, but the prison convoy was redirected by Executor Nizrek, who had been impressed by his actions. During their time together, they discussed their respective cultures and Anduin realized the nerubians weren't monsters, but a people in need of help. In time, Nizrek sent invitations to both Alleria and the champion to meet them in the City of Threads. While the champion arrived peacefully, Alleria immediately took aim at Nizrek, but was talked down by Anduin. Despite still being unable to use the light, Anduin believed that helping people was what he was best at, and while Alleria didn't trust the nerubians, she trusted him and followed his lead.

Nizrek revealed that they gathered today because it was Ascendance Day, a new holiday Queen Ansurek ordained to revel in their newfound, void-infused evolution, and the streets were lined with shadecasters spewing propaganda about ascending. He gave them a device that could overwrite their message and spread the truth about ascending. After sabotaging the shadecasters, Alleria, Anduin, and an adventurer decided to observe Ansurek's speech, while Nizrek provided some fliers for escape. Alleria felt the void's touch on Ansurek and concluded that she was another one of Xal'atath's puppets. As they began to leave, she sensed that the Harbinger was near and saw her standing beside the queen. Alleria quickly nocked an arrow and fired at Xal'atath, despite Anduin's protest. The Harbinger easily dodged the shot, causing it to land in front of the queen. Furious, Ansurek ordered her guards to capture the would-be assassins, forcing them to flee from the City of Threads. As they made their way to Nizrek's fliers, Anduin questioned what Alleria was thinking and she replied that she had to take the chance to avenge Dalaran and Khadgar. When they reached the fliers, Kx, Fang of the Queen, intercepted them and killed their fliers. They managed to fend off the Fang, but with their fliers dead and the nerubians closing in on them, Alleria ordered them to jump off the waterfall to escape. After Anduin and the adventurer jumped, Xal'atath tried to tempt Alleria into embracing the void, only for Alleria to strike her and join her companions.

When Anduin asked what Xal'atath wanted with her, Alleria explained that Xal'atath wanted her to embrace the darkness and cast aside all she had cared for, but she realized that she didn't have to choose between the Void and her family and that she could walk a path with both. Once they returned to the Weaver's Lair and informed Widow Arak'nai of what transpired, the Widow held a conference with Anub'azal and Nizrek, forming the Severed Threads. They then returned to the surface to debrief their allies on what happened.

At the Great Kyron's request, Anduin checked in on Faerin, who was quietly mourning her friend Andari. After reflecting that there was a time when he would have known what to say to Faerin, Anduin found himself lost as to what to say. Thus he decided to accompany Faerin back to Mereldar, while instructing champions to seek out Aldari's lost belongings. In the aftermath the pair, learned and played Light's Gambit with Faerin as they helped her process some of her emotions.

He was amongst those who witnessed the arrival of the Horde and Alliance fleets.

Anduin was amongst the forces that arrived to aid the Arathi when the nerubians launched an all-out assault on Hallowfall, where he noted that Alleria was distracted and felt that she knew something that they didn't. When Alleria used her powers to tap into the Unseeming, she saw that the Black Blood was moving towards the Priory of the Sacred Flame. Anduin, Faerin, and the champions joined her on the Dawnbreaker as they traveled to the Priory, where they found it wreathed in shadow. They lit the braziers to drive back the darkness and advanced towards the Priory, but their path was barred by Queen Neferess. They fought the Broken Queen until they realized that she was trying to resist Xal'atath's commands and subdued her instead. Once they reached the Priory, Faerin stayed outside to hold off the Harbinger's forces, while the others went in to confront her. Inside, they saw Xal'atath channeling Beledar into the Dark Heart. She commented that mortals are the most wrathful creatures in existence and how she observed their many deeds, noting that their hunger for violence was insatiable. Alleria realized that Xal'atath lured them to Khaz Algar to fuel the Black Blood and decided to end her plot. She took aim at Xal'atath, who noted that she couldn't kill her, but Alleria revealed she was aiming at something else and fired at the Dark Heart. Xal'atath tried to protect the relic, but the arrow hit it, cracking it and caused its power to leak. Furious, Xal'atath told her it changed nothing and teleported away, but not before an injured raven flew through her portal and transformed back into Khadgar. Alleria ran towards her friend, but he quickly began to fade. As his body grew limp, Anduin approached him as Beledar shifted back to light and was able to channel the Light once more, healing him.

Following their victory, Anduin could be found with Thrall on a hill overlooking Dornogal and much of Isle of Dorn. The pair spoke of how Anduin found his light because he stopped running from it.

Anduin and Jaina spent Winter Veil dining with the Feldons.
Blood Ties

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft novels, novellas, or short stories.

After the fighting in Khaz Algar was over, Anduin returned to Stormwind. However, he did not reclaim his throne, leaving Turalyon still in charge for now. Anduin later attended Turalyon and Alleria's wedding. When demons attacked the wedding, Anduin both helped fight them off and healed the other defenders.
Midnight

This section concerns content related to Midnight.

Anduin was a part of the Vanguard of the Light summoned to defend the Sunwell from Xal'atath. He was found under Faerin's protective barrier in Parhelion Plaza healing Injured Defenders "Injured Defender (Isle of Quel'Danas)") but wanted to move them away. After the Devouring Host's initial assault is fought off, Anduin is one of the Light-wielders who is continuously channeling Light into the Sunwell to keep the Voidstorm at bay.

He briefly left the Sunwell to speak with Valeera Sanguinar at the Reliquary "Reliquary (Silvermoon City)"). Later, Anduin requested her aid in helping members of the Twilight's Blade defect from the cult and sent her a map of Zul'Aman marking their location.

When Magister Umbric was detained by the Vanguard of the Light and the Magisters for attempting to approach the Sunwell, Anduin intervened to ensure that he was not executed on the spot. An adventurer representing Lor'themar Theron explained that Umbric was researching a way to breach the Voidstorm and attempted to negotiate his release. While the Vanguard and Grand Magister Rommath dismissed his work, Anduin recognized its value and petitioned Lothraxion to release him. He argued that Umbric had proven himself to the Alliance time and again and accepted full responsibility for the magister's actions.

After the Sunwell was corrupted into the Darkwell, Anduin and the other champions of the Light were afflicted by Void corruption, rendering them incapacitated and unable to wield the Light. Grand Magister Rommath tasked adventurers with marking the fallen Light-wielders so that his magisters could evacuate them.

By the time the elves of Azeroth united to reclaim the Sunwell, the champions of the Light had recovered and witnessed its rebirth as the Dawnwell. In the aftermath, Anduin introduced Faerin Lothar to his mentor, Prophet Velen. Although Velen was curious about Beledar, he first wished to check on Anduin's connection to the Light. Anduin admitted that being near the Sunwell had initially felt overwhelming, but now its presence felt gentle, like it had during his youth. When Velen asked why he had been avoiding him, Anduin apologized and confessed that he believed himself broken and unworthy of the future Velen had once foreseen for him. However, he was beginning to recover. Velen reassured him that he was still young and had many possible futures ahead of him, noting that in none of them had he seen Anduin remain idle for long.
Son of the Wolf (possible future)

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft manga or comics.



Enlarge

High King Anduin Wrynn many years into the future.

In a possible future, many, many years later, Anduin Wrynn as an old man re-reads his father's last letter and contemplates that there is only one more battle to be fought. Aboard the Exodar, Velen informs the High King that it is time, that they will never have an opportunity or chance like this again. As Anduin stands up, he remembers his father and all the others who have fallen, and Velen says that the Light will triumph over the Shadow this day.
Locations

| Notable appearances |
| --- |
| Location | Level range | Health range |
| Stormwind Keep | ?? | 28,527,600 |
| Jade Forest | 5 - 15 | 164 - 384 |
| Krasarang Wilds | 87 | 9,585 |
| Timeless Isle | 90 | 11,494 |
| Siege of Orgrimmar (instance) "Siege of Orgrimmar (instance)") | 90 | 57,470 |
|  \[10-45\] The Fallen Lion | ?? | 1,104,563,968 |
| Stormwind Embassy | ?? | 17,954,400 |
|  \[10-50\] The Battle for Lordaeron | ?? | 12,268,800 |
|  \[10-50\] Battle for Azeroth: Tides of War | ?? | 51,876,000 |
Abilities

During  \[15-35\] Sha Can Awe

Aura of Hope — Anduin restores a portion of your health and mana and inspires Hopeless Redwing Defenders within 15 yards whenever you kill a sha creature at the Temple of the Red Crane.
Holy Smite — Smites an enemy, inflicting Holy damage.
Hopeful Vigor — Purges Languor from the target, inspiring them with hope and increasing their haste and movement speed by 10% for each application of Languor removed.

During  \[15-35\] Heart Of The Alliance and  \[15-35\] The Monkey King)

Power Word: Shield — Wraps an ally in a shield that lasts up to until canceled., absorbing a maximum of 30 Physical or magical damage. While the shield holds, spells will not be interrupted by Physical attacks.
With Holy Smite listed above.

Stormwind City

Greater Heal — Heals the caster for 25% of maximum life.
Penance — Launches bolts of holy light at up to 5 enemies every 1 sec for 6 sec, inflicting Holy damage.
Power Word: Aegis — Shields the caster with a protective ward for 15 sec, absorbing 30816 damage.
Psychic Scream — Lets out a psychic scream, causing up to 5 nearby enemies to flee for 4 sec.

Stormwind City, Legion intro

Inner Fire — A burst of Holy energy fills the caster, increasing armor by 10% and spell power by 10%.

Broken Shore,  \[45\] A Found Memento-questline

Heal — Calls upon Holy magic to heal an ally.
Holy Fire — Consumes an enemy in flames, burning it and inflicting additional Fire damage every 2 sec. over 8 sec.
Holy Smite — Smites an enemy, inflicting Holy damage.
Holy Word: Serenity — Perform a miracle, healing an ally for 1.

Battle for Lordaeron

Flash Heal — Calls upon Holy magic to heal an ally.
Greater Heal — Heals the caster for 100% of maximum life.
Holy Barrier
Penance — Launches bolts of holy light at up to 5 allies every 1 sec for 6 sec, healing them.
Penance — Launches bolts of holy light at up to 5 enemies every 1 sec for 6 sec, inflicting Holy damage.
Taunt — Taunts the target to attack you, but has no effect if the target is already attacking you.
With Psychic Scream listed above.

Escape from the Maw

Greater Heal — An exceptional spell that heals the target for 100% of their maximum health.
Greater Holy Word: Sanctuary
Inner Light — The brilliance of the Anduin's Inner Light heals you for 10% of your maximum health every 3 sec.

In the Sanctum of Domination

Blasphemy — Anduin stuns targets while manifesting an unstable orb of raw Light, then shatters it, inflicting 11017 Holy damage to targets within 5 yards of each piece of Light that strikes the ground.
Crippling Defeat — Strikes a target with an empowered Death blast, inflicting 200% of the target's health as Shadow damage as well as stunning them for 3 sec, in case the damage doesn't finish the job. " That prison could not hold me forever."

Isle of Quel'Danas

Light's Hand — Send a flickering flame towards your target, \[Preservation: healing an ally for (600% of Spell Power) or dealing (232.001% of Spell Power) Fire damage to an enemy / Devastation, Augmentation dealing (232.001% of Spell Power) Fire damage to an enemy or healing an ally for (600% of Spell Power)\]
Quests

### Stormwind City

  -  \
  -  \
  -  \
  -  \
Mists of Pandaria

Jade Forest

\
\

Krasarang Wilds

\ 
     1.  \
     2.  \
     3.  \ 
\

Kun-Lai Summit

\
\ 
\

Landfall  01.  \
\ 
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ 
\
### Legion

Legion introduction

  -  \
    -  \
      -  \
  -  \
    -  \

Prestige 2

  -  \
    -  \ 

A Found Memento

  -  \
  -  \
  -  \ 
  -  \
  -  \ 
  -  \
  -  \ 
Battle for Azeroth

  -  \
  -  \
  -  \

BfA intro

  -  \
  -  \

War Campaign

  -  \
  -  \
  -  \
  -  \ 
  -  \
  -  \ 
  -  \
  -  \ 
  -  \ 
  -  \
  -  \ 

Black Empire Campaign

  -  \

The Maw

  -  \
  -  \ 
  -  \ 
  -  \
  -  \
  -  \

Everywhen Inn  -  \ 
### Removed

The subject of this section has been removed from World of Warcraft.

  -  \
    -  \
  -  \
  -  \
    -  \
  -  \ 
    -  \

Twilight Highlands introduction

  -  \
    -  \
  -  \
    -  \ &  \
    -  \ 
  -  \

War of the Thorns

  -  \ 
  -  \ 
  -  \

Allied races

  -  \
  -  \ 
  -  \ 
  -  \
  -  \
  -  \

The subject of this section did not make it out of the PTR stages.

  -  \ 
Objective of

He needs to be interacted with in:

\[10-35\] Anduin's Decision
\[10-35\] Scouting Report: On the Right Track

This section concerns content related to Midnight.

Needs to be rescued during  \[90\] Wake of the Darkwell.

The subject of this section has been removed from World of Warcraft.

He needed to be spoken with in:

\[84\] My Son, the Prince

The subject of this section did not make it out of the beta stages.

\[82\] The Vale of Eternal Blossoms
Tactics

This section concerns content related to Legion.



Enlarge

Anduin in the throne room.

King Anduin is perhaps the hardest city leader to defeat for Horde players. The location of Stormwind Keep and Stormwind's geography make getting to Anduin undetected nearly impossible. Additionally, Anduin's elite guard are spread all the way along the path to the king, ranging as far as the steps of the keep itself, and as such players on flying mounts may want to use the side entrance to Stormwind Keep in order to save some time. Every second counts, as a fast kill is vital due to Stormwind being highly populated during most hours and Alliance players are very likely to come to the aid of their King. Unlike Varian, Anduin also comes equipped with the ability to heal and shield his allies. Melee fighters should also be wary of his Psychic Scream.
Abilities

Greater Heal — Heals the caster for 25% of maximum life.
Penance — Launches bolts of holy light at up to 5 enemies every 1 sec for 6 sec, inflicting Holy damage.
Power Word: Aegis — Shields the caster with a protective ward for 15 sec, absorbing 300000000 damage.
Psychic Scream — Lets out a psychic scream, causing up to 5 nearby enemies to flee for 4 sec.
Appearance

Anduin is a young human with pale skin, blue eyes, and medium-length golden-blond hair that he used to wear tied up but has since shaved. He is described as identical to his late mother, Tiffin. As High King, he typically wears stylized blue and gold royal armor adorned with lion symbols.
Personality

Although only a young adult, Stormwind's king, Anduin, has persevered through numerous trials and tribulations, such as being kidnapped by the scheming black dragon Onyxia. His greatest challenge, however, might lie in his relationship with Varian. Anduin is no stranger to his father's love and affection, but he is constantly wary of sudden outbursts from Varian's violent, gladiatorial side. Anduin has also struggled against his father's insistence that he become a warrior.

Events just prior to the Cataclysm signaled a new chapter in Anduin's life. While undergoing martial training in the dwarven bastion of Ironforge, Anduin witnessed as Moira Thaurissan—the estranged daughter of the late King Magni Bronzebeard—held the city hostage with a contingent of Dark Iron dwarves. Despite being the legal heir to Ironforge, she drew the ire of Varian for her heavy-handed tactics. Before long, the king and a team of SI:7 agents infiltrated the city, intent on killing the brash dwarf heiress. Only through Anduin's wise and resolute intervention did Varian stay his hand and spare Moira's life, thus averting a political disaster that might have ignited a dwarven civil war.

During his time in Ironforge, Anduin also discovered his true calling in life: to be a priest devoted to the tenets of the Holy Light. For those who know Anduin well, this discipline is a perfect fit for the prince, who has consistently proven himself to be compassionate and thoughtful. No longer the child-prince of Stormwind from years past, Anduin is fast becoming his own man with the courage to speak up for what he believes in. He does not share Varian's outright hatred and mistrust of the Horde. On one occasion, he even imparted sage advice to the tauren chieftain Baine Bloodhoof after the death of his father, Cairne. Yet in Azeroth's current state of turmoil, it is unknown whether Anduin's destiny with the Light will proceed on its current course, or whether his path will take a different turn.

After assuming the throne of Stormwind, Anduin's yearning for peace clashes with his duty to fight. But he has begun to prove himself as a skilled wartime leader for the Alliance.

However, after being Dominated by the Jailor to commit horrible things, Anduin had become emotionally scarred by what he was forced to do but more so in the feeling of excitement in hurting others. As a result, Anduin had become plagued by doubt, unsure if he can call upon the Light as he once did, fearing that he is no longer worthy of the Light. This trauma and uncertainty led Anduin to journey across Azeroth in isolation, desperately searching for healing but even after years of wandering, Anduin remains unsure of himself despite having the support of friends and allies. His journey with Faerin Lothar and the Arathi of Hallowfall would help begin the healing Anduin had been longing for, before ultimately being able to call upon the Light once more to heal a mortally wounded Khadgar. When questioned by Thrall on how he regained the Light, Anduin clarified that he never truly lost it. Instead, Anduin stated that he merely stopped running from it.
Age

Anduin Wrynn was ten when the original World of Warcraft game was released.

  -  fished from the Dalaran fountain has the flavor text " I wish I would grow up, it feels like I've been 10 for years."
  - When Arthas Menethil officially joined the Silver Hand at age nineteen, in Year 15, Varian Wrynn was a new father. This indicates that Anduin was born around Year 15, and was ten around the time of World of Warcraft, Year 25.
  - According to the Ultimate Visual Guide, Anduin was crowned the temporary King of Stormwind at age ten when his father was kidnapped.
Stormrage, whose events took place some time after the fall of the Lich King, claims that he was not quite thirteen.
In The Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm and Wolfheart, which took place before and after the Shattering "Cataclysm (event)"), Anduin Wrynn was thirteen years old.
Jaina Proudmoore: Tides of War, taking place at the beginning of Mists of Pandaria, states that he was fourteen.
War Crimes, taking place in the end of Mists of Pandaria, states that he was fifteen.
Following the end of the Argus Campaign, Anduin was said to be eighteen, making him twenty-five years old in Dragonflight.
Quotes
World of Warcraft: The Comic

This section concerns content related to the Warcraft manga or comics.

" The druid was injured in my service and I will protect him with my life! To reach him, monsters, you'll have to go through me!"
"Meeting Thrall would be great, dad. From what I've heard... He's extraordinary. And isn't establishing peace something a king should do? If he can?"
"Why waste your warriors and resources in battle when a few words will bring you greater profit?" (Said to Garrosh Hellscream during the summit at Theramore)
"You're anxious to return to Stormwind? But there's so much to discuss here that may ensure our kingdom's future peace and prosperity."
World of Warcraft

This section concerns content related to the original World of Warcraft.

Greetings

Greetings citizen.
Hi there. Have you heard any news of my father? (Removed in 3.0.2 with the return of his father.)
Enjoying your stay in Stormwind?
Cataclysm

This section concerns content related to Cataclysm.

Greeting

Greetings citizen.
Hello. Have you come to speak with my father?
I hope you're enjoying your stay in Stormwind.

Escorting the Prince

Keep your eyes open for anything suspicious.
I'm glad you're here.
Something strange is happening in Stormwind...
We'll get to the bottom of this.

Stormwind Keep gossip

Welcome to Stormwind, <class>.
Mists of Pandaria

This section concerns content related to Mists of Pandaria.
On-click

Greeting

Have you ever seen such a place?
There's work to be done here.
There's more to this land than meets the eye.
We're far from home, friend.
Can you believe the majesty of this place?

Greeting (At Grookin Hill)

It's not too late to end this war.
I have always heard that the Horde was honorable.
We don't have to keep fighting. Don't you see?

Irritated

You know who my father is, right?
I'm telling!

Farewell

I will see you soon.
Stay safe.
Keep your guard up.
Be careful.
Dialogue

Grookin Hill, looking at Grookin Grenadiers and Jinyu Captives

There is still time to stop this madness. You don't have to do this Shokia...
There is so much we can learn from this land, and yet you are content to watch it burn around you.
Bringing our war to these natives is wrong. We should be teaching them the best of ourselves not the worst...
This is absolutely barbaric!

Main article: Scouting Report: On the Right Track#NotesMain article: Scouting Report: Like Jinyu in a Barrel#NotesMain article: Borrowed Brew#NotesMain article: Finding Your Center#NotesMain article: Rest in Peace#NotesMain article: An Ancient Legend#NotesMain article: Anduin's Decision#NotesMain article: Blinding the Riverblades#NotesMain article: Tread Lightly#NotesMain article: The Murksweats#NotesMain article: In the House of the Red Crane#NotesMain article: Temple of the White TigerMain article: A Celestial ExperienceMain article: Lion's Landing (quest)#Notes#Notes "Lion's Landing (quest)")Main article: The Kirin Tor (quest)#Notes#Notes "The Kirin Tor (quest)")Main article: The Fate of Dalaran#NotesMain article: Breath of Darkest Shadow#NotesMain article: Secrets of the First Empire#NotesMain article: I Need a Champion#NotesMain article: The Thunder Forge (quest)#Notes#Notes "The Thunder Forge (quest)")Main article: Spirit of the Storm Lord#NotesMain article: The Crown of Heaven#NotesMain article: Echoes of the Titans#NotesMain article: Heart of the Thunder King (quest)#Notes#Notes "Heart of the Thunder King (quest)")Main article: Time Keeper Kairoz#NotesMain article: Garrosh Hellscream (tactics)#Quotes#Quotes "Garrosh Hellscream (tactics)")
Gossip

Grookin Hill

Perhaps you could speak to Nazgrim on my behalf? He seems unwilling to negotiate with me.
I would recommend releasing me. My father is not as forgiving as I am.
I am sure that if you let me contact my companions we can begin negotiations for my release.
Look at this land. Now is the time to be talking about peace and exploration.
Noble <race>, I am sure there is some agreement we can come to for my release.

Initial at Crane Wing Refuge, to Alliance players

If you've come to return to me to my father, I must ask that you look around us first - can we truly walk away from these people in their time of need and still claim to represent the Alliance?

Initial at Crane Wing Refuge, to Horde players

Our people have their differences, <class>, but we are all guests in this place.

The pandaren have shown me great hospitality and respect, as I'm sure you've also received, and now they need our help.

The Horde is not without honor. If you know honor, you will know to save our quarrel for another time.

 How did you end up here?

When the SI:7 found me, they wanted to take me home. I ran away.It wasn't long before the Horde found me.During the battle at Serpent's Heart, I managed to slip away in the chaos. A merchant allowed me to ride with his family as they fled west, to Zhu's Watch.It was there that I met Mei Barrelbottom.She told me of the Crane Wing order, and on her advice I accompanied a courier to the temple to seek an audience with Chi-Ji, the Red Crane.I was studying with the disciples there when the sha arrived. Why didn't you return to Stormwind with the SI:7?I could not bear to sit in Stormwind Keep while my people's blood spills here!Pandaria has so much to teach us. There is great power here. Power that could save thousands of lives.And I aim to find it.After first set of quests

My time with the Red Crane was short, but I learned a great deal under his tutelage.

This foe--this "sha" energy--is unlike anything we've ever faced. It is the physical manifestation of emotional turmoil, bottled in the land for centuries.

This emotional energy has now burst forth to find living, feeling hosts in which to reside.

The sha threatens to wash over the whole continent, possibly the world, if we do not aid the pandaren in facing it down!

During  \[15-35\] Sha Can Awe

Together we can reclaim the temple and restore hope for the people here. It's my honor to accompany you in this task.

Temple of the White Tiger

Oh, hello, <name>.

Your timing couldn't be better.

Gate of the August Celestials

This is a historic moment, <name>. What do you think lies beyond the gates?

The Summer Terrace

It pained me to see so many displaced from their homes in Kun-lai. I am very happy we found a safe haven for those in need of protection

Landfall

Garrosh is going to try to use the Divine Bell to wreak havoc on the land. We must find a way to stop him.
Legion

This section concerns content related to Legion.

Greetings

For the Alliance above all.
A just cause is always worth fighting for.
Greetings friend.
A king is only as noble as the cause that he serves.
Stormwind will endure.
Sometimes we must fight for what we believe in.
Stormwind honors your service to the Alliance.

Irritated

Now is not a time for that.
You try my patience.
You know I'm king now, right?
The light shall burn you!

Farewell

Be vigilant.
Victory in the light.
Safe journey to you.
You are always welcome in Stormwind.
Never lose hope.
Dialogue

Main article: A Royal Summons#NotesMain article: A Royal Audience (Alliance)#Notes#Notes "A Royal Audience (Alliance)")Main article: The Victor's Spoils (Alliance)#Notes#Notes "The Victor's Spoils (Alliance)")Main article: A Found Memento#NotesMain article: A Kingdom's Heart#NotesMain article: A Personal Message#NotesMain article: A Walk to Remember#NotesMain article: Lost Souls#NotesMain article: The King's Path#NotesMain article: The Call for Allies (Alliance)#Notes#Notes "The Call for Allies (Alliance)")Main article: The Lightforged#NotesMain article: For the Light! (quest)#Notes#Notes "For the Light! (quest)")Main article: For the Alliance (Lightforged draenei)#Notes#Notes "For the Alliance (Lightforged draenei)")Main article: The Ghostlands (quest)#Notes#Notes "The Ghostlands (quest)")Main article: Telogrus Rift (quest)#Notes#Notes "Telogrus Rift (quest)")_Main article: For the Alliance (void elf)#Notes#Notes "For the Alliance (void elf)")
Stormwind Embassy

War is coming to Azeroth, <name>. It is time for us to bring in new allies to join our cause.
Battle for Azeroth

This section concerns content related to Battle for Azeroth.
Dialogue

Main article: A Short-Lived Peace#NotesMain article: From the Ashes...#NotesMain article: Battle for Azeroth cinematic#transcriptMain article: Hour of Reckoning (Alliance)#Notes#Notes "Hour of Reckoning (Alliance)")Main article: The Battle for Lordaeron#NotesMain article: The Stormwind Extraction#NotesMain article: Battle for Azeroth: Tides of War#NotesMain article: The Nation of Kul Tiras#NotesMain article: An End to the Killing#NotesMain article: A Nation United (quest)#Notes#Notes "A Nation United (quest)")Main article: Dark Iron Dwarves (quest)#Notes#Notes "Dark Iron Dwarves (quest)")
War Campaign - Durotar

This is our one and only chance. We must stop Sylvanas here and now.

 Where is Tyrande?

She... hasn't responded to my missives since departing for Darkshore. I fear vengeance has consumed her.
Stormwind Embassy

We have faced much together, <name>. You have always been a noble friend and ally.
Shadowlands

This section concerns content related to Shadowlands.
Dialogue

Main article: The Lion's Cage#NotesMain article: An Undeserved Fate#NotesMain article: From the Mouths of Madness#NotesMain article: By and Down the River#NotesMain article: Draw Out the Darkness#NotesMain article: The Path to Salvation#NotesMain article: Stand as One#NotesMain article: The Captive King#NotesMain article: The Highlord's Vision#NotesMain article: The First Move#NotesMain article: Untangling the Sigil#NotesMain article: A Symbol of Hope#NotesMain article: Anduin Wrynn (tactics)#Quotes#Quotes "Anduin Wrynn (tactics)")Main article: The Broken Crown#NotesMain article: Where the Memory Resides#NotesMain article: What We Wish to Forget#NotesMain article: What Makes Us Strong (quest)#Notes#Notes "What Makes Us Strong (quest)")Main article: What We Overcome#Notes
On-click

Greetings

Fate is ours to determine.
There is much to be done.
We will claim victory. Together.
We will not allow darkness to triumph.

Farewell

Honor those we have lost.
The Light is with us... even here.
We fight for Azeroth, and the Shadowlands.
We will set things right.
Gossip

During The Crown of WillsThere is a shadow upon my mind. Like a cold hand whose fingers curl ever so softly around your heart.The Crucible after  \ I must ask more of you. The Alliance will need your dedication, now more than ever. /  No doubt the Horde will rely upon your courage in the days ahead. Defend Azeroth, <name>. No matter what comes.>Dialogue with Genn Greymane (triggered by talking to Genn)



Enlarge

Genn and Anduin in the Crucible.

Genn Greymane says: I can't tell you how relieved I am to see you safe, my king. Even after reading Jaina's reports, I can scarcely imagine the horrors you endured.Anduin Wrynn says: There were times I thought I would never escape the Jailer's control. The things he made me do...Genn Greymane says: Those actions were not your fault! You cannot blame yourself.Anduin Wrynn says: I... I should have been stronger...Genn Greymane says: Anduin Wrynn, you are the strongest man I know. And when you return to Stormwind, the whole kingdom will tell you the same.Anduin Wrynn says: I can't go back, Genn. Not yet.Genn Greymane says: But the people need--Anduin Wrynn says: Turalyon will keep the Alliance safe in my absence. And I know you'll watch over everyone we care about... Old Wolf.Genn Greymane says: Of course. Take whatever time you need. And when you're ready... please, come home.
The War Within

This section concerns content related to The War Within.
On-click

Greetings

The Light calls us.
Our strength is in unity.
There is honor in service.
It is good to see you.
I will help anyone in need.
We will not allow Xal'atath to triumph
I know I can help.
We are in this together.
I will help if I can.
What can I do?
I will always try.
Am I needed?

Farewells

Thank you for your help.
There is still much to be done.
We will do this together.
Find your purpose.
Everyone deserves a chance.
Inspire others to do better.
I do what I can.
Together, we will be victorious.
I hear a radiant song.
We have lost so many.
Will I ever be forgiven?
Who is calling for help?

Irritated

I admired your tenacity, but you need to stop!
I've endured worse.
I cannot deal with this right now!
Dialogue

With Magni at Stonelight RestAnduin Wrynn says: So many injured...

Speaking to Anduin:

We're lucky to find respite here.

From what the earthen have said, the nerubians have been their enemy for millennia--but haven't come to the Isle of Dorn in force as far back as any of them can remember.

The nerubians have caught all of us unprepared.

 <Stay awhile and listen.>

Anduin Wrynn says: Magni, how are you feeling?Magni Bronzebeard says: How I look, to be honest. The shine has worn off of me. And of this speaker nonsense.Anduin Wrynn says: Nonsense? I thought... Being the speaker was...Magni Bronzebeard says: An honor? Aye, until it wasn't. A song everywhere and nary a peep for me...Magni Bronzebeard says: And now, dragged to the ends of the earth... and my family too!Anduin Wrynn says: I... can't offer you any comfort. I admit that I...Magni Bronzebeard says: You're in the same boat, aren't you, lad? But the Light seems a fairer master... I doubt it has left you truly, Anduin.Anduin Wrynn says: I could say the same of you and Azeroth. I don't think it's you... I think there is much we don't know.Magni Bronzebeard says: That may be. But if I were you, I'd enjoy my break from being a king and savior of the world. Figure yourself out. Rest.Anduin Wrynn says: My relationship with the Light is not like yours to Azeroth. But... I can see what you mean.

There's also a <Stay awhile and listen> triggered by speaking to Magni:

Magni Bronzebeard says: These earthen. They're a funny lot. Odd traditions. Superstitions.Anduin Wrynn says: What... do you mean?Magni Bronzebeard says: Oh, you know, Titans, Edicts... Thraegar...Anduin Wrynn says: Some of them have been calling me Arathi. Like the ancient human empire. I... wonder how they know of it.Magni Bronzebeard says: Aye. I heard that too.Magni Bronzebeard says: I don't know what to make o' it. The earthen are also an ancient people. They might be just rememberin' ghosts.Anduin Wrynn says: But it seems like the Arathi were here--recently. Why would the earthen have an inn with proper food and beds if they don't need them?Magni Bronzebeard says: Do ye think the Arathi are here somewhere in Khaz Algar?Anduin Wrynn says: I don't see how. But... it bears investigating.
Alternate timeline

A version of Anduin existed in a timeline where Varian was killed and Anduin was made king at a young age as detailed above, under the War Crimes section. According to Baine, Kairoz selected the most broken and darkest versions.
In Hearthstone

 "Hearthstone")This section contains information exclusive to Hearthstone "Hearthstone (game)") and is considered non-canon.



Enlarge

Anduin in Hearthstone "Hearthstone (game)").

Anduin is the default hero (player character) for the priest class in Hearthstone "Hearthstone (game)"). His flavor text reads: "The future King of Stormwind is a kind, gentle soul. Except when he's in Shadowform."
Winning 1,000 Ranked or Arena games as a priest unlocks the alternate King Anduin hero, whose flavor text reads: "The boy who would be King is King now, and woe be to anyone who crosses a priest powerful enough to wear plate."
In the Knights of the Frozen Throne expansion, the nine heroes of Warcraft have been raised as powerful death knights of the Lich King, with Anduin abandoning the Light and fully embracing the Void, becoming Shadowreaper Anduin. Upon being played, Shadowreaper Anduin replaces the player's Hero Power with Voidform. His flavor text reads: "I will tell you what Velen never taught me. Whosoever stands before the Light... inevitably casts a shadow."
Anduin is an epic Caster mercenary in the Mercenaries game mode.
In Heroes of the Storm

This section concerns content related to Heroes of the Storm and is considered non-canon.

Anduin is a playable character in Heroes of the Storm as a ranged healer. His Heroes of the Storm design is based on his Battle for Azeroth appearance, with armor combining his prince garbs with the plate armor he wears in combat. He carries Shalamayne on his back, though he only uses it for a few of his abilities, most of which are based on priest spells from World of Warcraft.
Notes and trivia

Anduin Wrynn's impaled body can be seen in the Stormwind Harbor "Stormwind (Siege of Orgrimmar)") of the Realm of Y'Shaarj.
The images of Varian and Anduin briefly appear in  \[30-35\] Gods and Monsters), a story told by Lorewalker Cho.
Anduin is one of two racial leaders who were replaced by someone else (by Varian in Wrath of the Lich King) but then got his position back later. The other is Thrall, who served as the leader of the orcs and resumed his position after the death of Varok Saurfang. Unlike Anduin, however, Thrall's position as Chieftain of the orcs is not the same as his original position, which was Warchief of the Horde.

  - Of the other racial leaders who had replacements, Cairne Bloodhoof, Garrosh Hellscream and Vol'jin died, while Magni Bronzebeard has chosen not to return to their old role.
The only time the Dominated Anduin uses his lion-skull helmet is during the Sylvanas Windrunner "Sylvanas Windrunner (tactics)") encounter in the Sanctum of Domination, in which he appears out of players' reach away from the actual boss battle. In every other place where his Dominated model is used—including the Sanctum's ending cinematic—his face is exposed.
There is an Alliance carrier used during the naval missions on the alternate Draenor "Draenor (alternate universe)") that bears the name Anduin's Prayer.
 is an Anduin-themed murloc pet that was given to attendees of BlizzCon 2019.
Anduin Wrynn is an epic Alliance ally card "Anduin Wrynn (Blood of Gladiators)") in the World of Warcraft: Trading Card Game's Blood of Gladiators series.
Like his namesake, Anduin Lothar, Anduin's name is identical to that of the famous river Anduin in J.R.R. Tolkien's Middle-Earth.
Anduin Wrynn is an epic Alliance ally card "Anduin Wrynn (Blood of Gladiators)") in the World of Warcraft: Trading Card Game's Blood of Gladiators series.
Anduin's appearance, personality, and relationship with his father has strong similarities with Valerian Mengsk from StarCraft. Both are also voiced by Josh Keaton.

  - In Heroes of the Storm, Nova mistakes Anduin for Valerian.
  - In the aforementioned game, Anduin claims that he is still wearing his helmet sans that it is hidden via transmogrification.
After the release of the Legion reveal trailer at gamescom 2015, many fans began nicknaming him "Manduin" for his more adult appearance as well as his subsequent character maturation.
His generic name in the Escape from the Maw is Stormwind Paladin.
Foreign names

Chinese: Ān dù yīn·wū ruì ēn (Simplified 安度因·乌瑞恩), (Traditional ​安杜因‧烏瑞恩)
Korean: andu-in lin (안두인 린)
Russian: Anduin Rinn (Андуин Ринн)
Misc. character information

At some point, King Anduin sneaked out of Stormwind Keep to the Gilded Rose tavern, dressed as a commoner. Unfortunately for him, the SI:7 found him.
Anduin has ridden hippogryphs. In Before the Storm, he got to ride a nightsaber (though he doesn't choose a white one with black stripes, as that reminded him too much of Xuen and felt it would be almost disrespectful to the August Celestial).
He understands bits of Darnassian.
Anduin has blue eyes.
He is the youngest Alliance leader.
He's studied titan artifacts.
Anduin's horse is a white-coated warhorse named Reverence.
Despite wearing full plate armor and wielding Shalamayne in combat during the battle for Lordaeron, Anduin is still a priest and not a paladin.
By the time of the Cataclysm "Cataclysm (event)"), Anduin had met Thrall only once. This is likely referring to the Theramore Isle peace summit after Onyxia's death.
  - At this time, Anduin did not know of Bolvar's ultimate fate yet, and Varian hoped he never would.
  - Following Varian's death, it was made clear that Anduin is aware of his fate, having taken on his father's oath to not tell anyone. He discusses this with Jaina following the defeat of N'Zoth, where she recommended that he personally tell Taelia the truth about Bolvar.
In Anduin's quarters hangs only one picture: a portrait of Queen Tiffin holding Anduin when he was a baby. In The Enemy Revealed, what appears to be a Level 70 Elite Tauren Chieftain poster can be seen hanging on one of the walls in Anduin's room.
According to Genevieve, Prince Anduin got his hair cut at Northshear Abbey.
As of Before the Storm, he is taller than Valeera Sanguinar.
During the original Twilight's Highlands intro questline in Stormwind City, Anduin had access to a  and a  to convenience player mounts.
Anduin as an NPC used barriers, shields, and holy fire, and mind control. In War Crimes, when Garrosh insulted his mother the late Queen Tiffin, an outraged Anduin felt like "\
While not seen, it's suggested that Anduin was among those who fell to the whispers of N'Zoth within the Vision of Stormwind, due to Wrathion stopping the adventurer and telling them: Wrathion says: No, <name>. Not the keep. That is one vision I would rather not see. when they approach Stormwind's Keep.
Prior to becoming a priest, Anduin was shown to have a skill with ranged weapons. At various points in World of Warcraft: The Comic he used a bow, a gun, and Valeera Sanguinar instructed him in throwing daggers.
Favorites

Anduin's favorite Pandarian food is lotus root paste buns.
Anduin's favorite spot in Pandaria is Mason's Folly, as he loves the idea of stairs that lead only to beauty and he finds the place to be serene.
Relationships

Master Mathias Shaw, King Genn Greymane, and Prophet Velen are his advisors.
Anduin calls Jaina Proudmoore "Aunt Jaina", and freely accepts hugs from her.
When Anduin stays in Ironforge, Magni Bronzebeard asked him to call him "uncle".
As he became friends with Calia Menethil, Anduin noted that unlike the more parental figure Jaina had been for him, Calia was more the big sister he never had.
The friendship between Anduin and Baine resembles Jaina and Thrall's which helped keep the peace between the two factions when the latter was still Warchief.
A number of fans pair Anduin with Wrathion. However, Christie Golden has stated that "their relationship was only good friends" and that it has been established "Anduin likes girls".
During Anduin's original stay in Ironforge, Aerin Stonehand took to calling him "li'l lion", similarly to Sylvanas Windrunner who often referred to him as "Little Lion". Lorewalker Cho at one point referred to Anduin as "young lion", while Xuen called him "young cub". Sunwalker Dezco described him as a "human calf". At BlizzCon 2017, Alex Afrasiabi referred to Anduin as the "lion of Stormwind", possibly as as a parallel to his namesake Anduin Lothar, who is often called the "Lion of Azeroth". Bolvar Fordragon also referred to Anduin as the "Young Lion".
Character development

According to Chris Metzen, before Christie Golden wrote The Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm, Blizzard had no plans for Anduin's character. The team had worked out the outline for the book when Golden suggested including Anduin as an important component of the story. Metzen was initially skeptical but agreed to trust Golden, who in his opinion ended up doing an excellent job with Anduin's inclusion in the novel.
Prior to Cataclysm, Anduin was the only child in the game with voiced dialogue. After the Cataclysm, he was the only teenager with a non-child model in the game.
Anduin was voiced by Joey Cash in classic World of Warcraft, Jim Mahoney during Cataclysm, and now is voiced solely by Josh Keaton.
It has been suggested that similar to Thrall, Anduin's aging over the course of World of Warcraft is reflective of Chris Metzen's real-world aging, especially in regards to Anduin's youthful debut in World of Warcraft leading to his more haggard state in The War Within. When asked, Metzen did not confirm or deny this, but did state that the in-universe aging of both characters was intentional for story reasons.
Speculation

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
|  | This article or section includes speculation, observations or opinions possibly supported by lore or by Blizzard officials. It should not be taken as representing official lore. |

Although not a paladin nor a warrior, he could possibly be considered a "battle-priest".
Holy Word: Salvation?

While the spell he used during the Battle for Azeroth opening cinematic has been confirmed to not be Mass Resurrection, Anduin has a spell in Heroes of the Storm called Holy Word: Salvation which appears to be identical in terms of both appearance and effect, implying it is, in fact, the same spell.
Gallery

World of Warcraft



King Anduin in Stormwind Keep.



King Anduin in a beta build of WotLK before King Varian was added.



Anduin and Varian in Cho's story.



Anduin in the Legion announcement trailer.

.")

Anduin in the Maw during Silent Vigil (quest) "Silent Vigil (quest)").

Art and cinematics



Anduin as a baby in his mother's arms.



A portrait of a young Anduin in Varian's compass.



Cover artwork for Flashback.



Anduin facing Onyxia in The Comic.



Anduin on a hunt in Beginnings & Ends.



Anduin in the Trading Card Game.



Anduin and Varian in Stormwind Keep in the TCG.



Anduin by Erik Braddock



Battle for Azeroth Alliance wallpaper, with Anduin in the center.



Promotional art Anduin and Sylvanas face off.



Promotional art with Anduin fighting Sylvanas outside of Capital City.



Concept art of the dominated Anduin and Kingsmourne.



Anduin on the cover art of The Calling.



Anduin on the cover art of The Voices Within.



Anduin, Alleria and Thrall on The War Within key art.



Anduin Wrynn concept art.



An Anduin/Sylvanas symbol in Before the Storm.



King Anduin Wrynn in the Alliance Player's Guide.



In the Warcraft 30th Anniversary key art.



In the Gamescom 2024 key art.



Anduin on the Midnight key art

Hearthstone "Hearthstone (game)")



Shadowreaper Anduin in the Knights of the Frozen Throne expansion.



Shadowreaper Anduin with other undead heroes.



Shadowreaper Anduin with other undead heroes.



Initial Anduin "hswiki:Anduin (Book of Heroes)") hero in Book of Heroes.



Anduin as a boy in Mercenaries.



Anduin as a teenager in Mercenaries.



King Anduin alternate hero.



Anduin of Prophecy alternate hero.



SI:7 Anduin alternate hero.



Transcendence Anduin alternate hero.



Little Lion Anduin alternate hero.



In the trailer for United in Stormwind.



Promotional illustration.

Heroes of the Storm



Anduin, King of Stormwind.



Heroes of the Storm key art.



Neo-President Anduin.



Emperor of the Dominion Anduin.

Fan art



Light and Shadow by Angju. First place in the Legion Art Contest by Wowhead.
Videos

Load video

Video Link

Video Link might collect personal data.

ContinueDismiss

Finding Prince Anduin Wrynn
Jaina tells Anduin about the past
Hidden Threads
Hellscream's Downfall (Alliance)
Courting Destiny
A Found Memento
Legion Epilogue (Alliance)
Battle for Lordaeron
Battle for Lordaeron: Turn the Tide
Lordaeron Throne Room Confrontation - Alliance
Lordaeron Throne Room Confrontation - Horde
Lost Honor
The Negotiation
Reckoning
Visions of N'Zoth - Intro Cinematic
Dark Abduction
No More Lies
Sylvanas' Choice
Kingsmourne
Sanctuary of Domination Raid Finale
Anduin's Goodbye
Anduin Raid Finale
Judgment Part 1
Judgment Part 2
Anduin Sylvanas Epilogue In Game Cutscene
The War Within
Shadow and Fury
Impossible Odds
The Crystal Changes
Anduin's Light Reluctance
Holy Flame Renewed
Faerin's Rallying Speech
The Rise of the Reckoning
Ascension Day
One Way Out
Whisper on the Wall
Confronting Xal'atath
The Behemoth Retreats
Patch changes

Patch 11.0.0 (2024-07-23): Model updated.

Patch 9.2.0 (2022-02-22): Model updated (purified).

Patch 9.1.0 (2021-06-29): Model updated (Maw).

Patch 9.0.1 (2020-10-13): Removed from Stormwind Keep.

Patch 8.0.1 (2018-07-17): Updated for level 120.

Patch 7.0.3 (2016-07-19): Updated model and once again titled "King of Stormwind".

Patch 5.0.4 (2012-08-28): Updated model and voice.

Patch 4.0.3a (2010-11-23): New model and voice.

Patch 3.0.2 (2008-10-14): Now titled "Prince of Stormwind" instead of King, a line of dialogue removed.
See also

Anduin Wrynn), a Blood of Gladiators TCG card
Prince Anduin Wrynn (Twilight of the Dragons), Twilight of the Dragons TCG card
References

^ abcWarcraft Lore/Anduin Wrynn
^ \[40-90\] Remember the Sunwell
^ abcdefBlizzard Entertainment 2017-05-17. A Found Memento: Raising a King. Archived from the original on 2017-05-17.
^ ab
^ The Characters of Warcraft/Anduin Wrynn
^ Alex Afrasiabi on Twitter Why does WoW keep pushing Paladin as the natural "upgrade" of a Priest? The Moonfangs. Now Anduin? "It isn't a natural upgrade. And Anduin is a priest. Hero NPCs can (sometimes) do special things and don't always follow class rules"
^ abBlizzCon 2017 Q&A
^ abWorld of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 18: Showdown!
^ abcThe Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm
^ Warcraft Lore/Varian Wrynn
^ Flashback
^ See Anduin's age
^ Human - WoW. Retrieved on 2018-09-14.
^ Arthas: Rise of the Lich King
^ Elegy, pg. 2
^ abWolfheart, chapter 22
^ Before the Storm, chapter 16
^ Before the Storm, chapter 32
^ World of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 13: Flashback
^ World of Warcraft manual, pg. 170
^ \[54\] The True Masters)
^ \[37\] Warn Bolvar!
^ \[1\] Stormwind Library
^ World of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 8: The Return
^ World of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 9: Through the Mirror Darkly
^ World of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 10: Last of the Line
^ World of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 11: Descent
^ abWorld of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 12: The Enemy Revealed
^ World of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 14: Into the Jaws of Death!
^ World of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 15: Conflicting Loyalties
^ World of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 17: Gathering Thunder!
^ World of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 19: The Winds of War
^ World of Warcraft: The Comic, Issue 21: \[\[Secrets (comic)\|\]\]
^ abStormrage, chapter 10
^ Before the Storm, chapter 7
^ \[60\] Stay of Execution)
^ Wolfheart
^ Prophet's Lesson
^ abBefore the Storm, chapter 4
^ Blood of Our Fathers
^ \[84\] My Son, the Prince
^ \[84\] Rallying the Fleet
^ \[84\] A Villain Unmasked
^ Jaina Proudmoore: Tides of War
^ Before the Storm, chapter 11
^ ab \[45\] A Found Memento
^ \[10-35\] The King's Command
^ ab \[10-35\] Finding Your Center
^ ab \[10-35\] Sacred Waters
^ \[10-35\] An Ancient Legend
^ \[10-35\] Anduin's Decision
^ \[10-35\] Scouting Report: On the Right Track
^ \[10-35\] Scouting Report: Like Jinyu in a Barrel
^ \[15-35\] Sha Can Awe
^ \[15-35\] In the House of the Red Crane
^ \[20-35\] A Celestial Experience
^ \[20-35\] A Witness to History
^ \[90\] The Might of Three
^ \[15-35\] Lion's Landing)
^ \[15-35\] The Kirin Tor)
^ \[15-35\] The Fate of Dalaran
^ \[15-35\] Heart Of The Alliance
^ \[15-35\] What Had To Be Done
^ \[15-35\] The Monkey King)
^ \[15-35\] The Greatest Prank
^ \[15-35\] The Bell Speaks)
^ \[15-35\] Breath of Darkest Shadow
^ \[15-35\] Breath of Darkest Shadow)
^ \[15-35\] The Silence
^ abWar Crimes
^ Before the Storm
^ ab \[90\] Meet Me Upstairs
^ \[90\] Secrets of the First Empire
^ \[90\] The Thunder Forge)
^ \[90\] The Crown of Heaven
^ \[90\] Echoes of the Titans
^ \[90\] Heart of the Thunder King)
^ Legion characters
^ World of Warcraft: Sylvanas, chapter 24
^ abcdBefore the Storm, chapter 1
^ \[10-45\] The Fallen Lion
^ \[10-45\] A Royal Summons
^ \[10-45\] A Royal Audience)
^ \[45\] A Simple Plan
^ ab \[45\] The King's Path
^ abWorld of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 4, pg. 118
^ abAnduin: Son of the Wolf
^ \[110\] Gifts of the Fallen
^ \[45\] The Call for Allies)
^ \[40-90\] For the Light!)
^ \[40-90\] Telogrus Rift)
^ \[40-90\] Dark Iron Dwarves)
^ Elegy
^ \[10-50\] The Battle for Lordaeron)
^ \[10-60\] The Stormwind Extraction
^ \[10-50\] Battle for Azeroth: Tides of War
^ \[10-50\] The Nation of Kul Tiras
^ \[35-60\] Time for War)
^ \[60\] An End to the Killing
^ \[50\] A Nation United)
^ Lost Honor
^ \[50\] Waning Hope
^ \[50\] Shores of Fate
^ ab \[60\] Dead Reckoning
^ \[40-90\] Allegiance of Kul Tiras
^ \[60\] Payment in Kind
^\- Cinematic (Spoiler)
^ The Negotiation – Cinematic (Spoiler)
^ \[60\] This Ain't Mine
^ \[60\] Saving the Siege
^ \[60\] Already Among Us
^ \[60\] Strategic Deployment
^ Reckoning
^ \[60\] Old Soldier)
^ \[50\] An Unwelcome Advisor
^ \[50\] A Gathering of Champions)
^ ab \[50\] The Price of Peace
^ Shadows Rising
^ World of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: The Eastern Kingdoms
^ \[50\] Cause for Distraction
^ Death Rising#Leader gossip
^ ab \[10-60\] A Moment's Respite
^ \[10-60\] The Afflictor's Key
^ ab \[10-60\] The Lion's Cage
^ \[10-60\] From the Mouths of Madness
^ \[10-60\] By and Down the River
^ \[10-60\] Wounds Beyond Flesh
^ \[10-60\] Draw Out the Darkness
^ \[10-60\] Stand as One
^Blizzard Entertainment. Shadowlands - Home. Retrieved on 2020-12-27.​ “ Once, the Jailer kept only the most dangerous souls in the cosmos confined in this eternal prison. Now, some of Azeroth’s greatest heroes are trapped here, and you’ll need to rescue them from the Jailer’s tower before he expends their very souls.”
^ \[10-55\] Delving Deeper
^ abcWorld of Warcraft 2020-02-21. BlizzConline 2021 - World of Warcraft Q&A (01:25 - 03:25). YouTube. Retrieved on 2021-03-23.
^ abWorld of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 4, pg. 203
^ ab \[60\] Signs of the Lion
^ \[60\] Torment Chamber: Thrall
^ ab \[60\] The Captive King
^ World of Warcraft: Sylvanas
^ Steve Danuser on Twitter. Archived from the original on 2021-04-23.​ “ Shalamayne was used to forge Kingsmourne.”
^ Anduin Raid Finale#Cinematics "Anduin Wrynn (tactics)")
^ ab \[60\] The Highlord's Vision
^ abBellular 2021-02-22. Simply AWESOME! Blizz Devs Hint Spicy New Lore & Major Game Fixes - Torghast V2?! (0:40 - 03:45). YouTube. Retrieved on 2021-03-19.
^ abRicardo C. Esteves 2021-02-22. WoW: Shadowlands - Chains of Domination Preview and Interview. Gamereactor. Retrieved on 2021-03-23.
^ Anduin Wrynn (tactics)#Overview#Overview "Anduin Wrynn (tactics)"): Throughout the encounter, Anduin temporarily manifests the source of his domination. This manifestation is linked to him by Domination's Grasp.
^ abc \[60\] A Symbol of Hope
^ ab \[60\] The First Move
^ \[60\] The Battle of Ardenweald
^ \[60\] The Heart of Ardenweald
^ \[60\] Untangling the Sigil
^ Sanctum of Domination ending cinematic#Cinematic "Sylvanas Windrunner (tactics)")
^ \[60\] Fighting for the Forge
^ \[60\] Seeking Haven
^ \[60\] News from Oribos
^ \[60\] The Pilgrimage Ends
^ Anduin Raid Finale#Cinematic "Anduin Wrynn (tactics)")
^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 4, pg. 214
^ \[60\] The Broken Crown
^ \[60\] Where the Memory Resides
^ \[60\] What We Wish to Forget
^ \[60\] What Makes Us Strong)
^ \[60\] What We Overcome
^ \[60\] The Crown of Wills
^ \[60\] The Fate of Sylvanas
^ ab \[60\] Penance and Renewal
^ \[60\] Silent Vigil)
^ ab \[80\] Light's Gambit)
^ \[70 Daily\] Lucky Hearthstone Card
^ The Calling
^ \[70\] Fair Skies and Strong Winds
^ The War Within Announce Cinematic \| World of Warcraft
^ \[68-70\] The War Within)
^ \[68-70\] Azeroth's Voice
^ \[68-70\] Painful Lessons
^ \[68-70\] Departure
^ \[68-70\] Secure the Beach
^ \[68-70\] Impossible Odds
^ \[68-70\] Impossible Odds
^ \[70-73\] Stones of Dornogal
^ \[70-73\] The Proscenium)
^ \[70-73\] Recompense)
^ \[75-78\] The Hallowed Path
^ \[75-78\] Where the Light Touches
^ \[75-78\] Rally on the Dawnbreaker
^ \[75-78\] Siege Weapon Sabotage
^ \[75-78\] Zero Out Xerosh
^ \[75-78\] The Light of the Dawntower
^ \[75-78\] A Lamplighter's Duty
^ \[75-78\] Tricks of the Dark
^ \[75-78\] Blades of the Arathi
^ \[75-78\] Shadow upon Shadow
^ \[75-78\] The Darkened Flame
^ \[75-78\] Ever Deeper Shadow
^ \[75-78\] The Final Resistance
^ \[75-78\] The Light at the End of the Tunnel
^ \[75-78\] Restore the Flame
^ \[75-78\] To Mereldar
^ \[75-78\] The Bastion of Hallowfall
^ \[75-78\] Nightwatch
^ \[75-78\] The Bell Tolls
^ \[75-78\] Crossroads of Twilight
^ \[75-78\] A Candle in the Dark
^ \[75-78\] The Final Front
^ \[75-78\] Trapdoor Sprung
^ \[75-78\] The Rise of the Reckoning
^ \[78-80\] Like a Spider on the Wall
^ \[78-80\] Rewriting the Rewritten
^ \[78-80\] Kaheti Hospitality
^ \[78-80\] What We Still Have
^ \[78-80\] Uniting Severed Threads
^ \[80\] A Moment to Rest
^ \[80\] Lost Pieces
^ \[80\] The Fleet Arrives
^ \[80\] The Might of Khaz Algar
^ \[80\] A Light in the Dark
^ \[80\] Return to Dornogal
^ Seasons "Seasons (comic)")
^ Blood Ties, chapter 2
^ Blood Ties, chapter 17
^ Blood Ties, chapter 18
^ \[80\] Champions of Quel'Danas
^ \[83-88\] Renewal for the Weary
^ \[80-83\] Paved in Ash
^ \[90\] A Favor for the Lion
^ \[83-88\] You Know This Evil?
^ \[90\] Wake of the Darkwell
^ \[90\] From Darkness, Light
^ Taliesin & Evitel Do Games 2018-11-24. A Drustvar Warfront, Anduin's Final Battle & Keeping The Factions Even : Blizzcon Dev Interview (19:59). YouTube. Retrieved on 2019-02-23.
^ Anduin Wrynn: Then and Now
^ The World of Warcraft Pop-Up Book
^ Arthas: Rise of the Lich King, chapter 5
^ The Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm, pg. 268
^ Wolfheart, chapter 15, pg. 638
^ Jaina Proudmoore: Tides of War, chapter 3
^ abWar Crimes, chapter 13
^ Before the Storm, chapter 11
^ World of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: The Eastern Kingdoms, pg. 11
^ Before the Storm, chapter 13
^ Elegy, pg. 37
^ \[10-60\] Stand as One
^ abBefore the Storm, chapter 30
^ \[84\] My Son, the Prince
^ World of Warcraft: The Comic: Threat!
^ The Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm, pg. 81
^ The Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm, chapter 7
^ The Enemy Revealed, pg. 4
^ Before the Storm, chapter 14
^ War Crimes \- "He wanted to stop Garrosh from speaking, ever, to blast his mind and wipe all that it was to be Garrosh Hellscream from it. He knew how to use the Light. He could use it now, not as a shield to protect, or a balm to heal, but as a weapon."
^ Christie Golden on Twitter: "His favorite food in Pandaria was lotus root paste buns. :)"
^ War Crimes, chapter 8
^ \[45\] Champion: Master Mathias Shaw
^ \[45\] A Kingdom's Heart
^ The Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm, chapter 11
^ Before the Storm, chapter 28
^ Christie Golden on Twitter (2015-10-10). Retrieved on 2016-12-25. - "Their relationship was only good friends. XD"
^ Christie Golden on Twitter \- "...They're just friends in my work, but that's something wonderful too."
^ Christie Golden on Twitter \- "...and would love to see gay chars. But it's been established Anduin likes girls, so...!"
^ The Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm, chapter 11
^ \[10-35\] Finding Your Center
^ \[20-35\] A Celestial Experience)
^ \[20-35\] A Celestial Experience)
^ Medievaldragon 2017-11-04. BlizzCon 2017 World of Warcraft: Battle for Azeroth Panel Transcript - Page 3 of 12. Blizzplanet. Retrieved on 2018-10-23.
^ \[60\] Signs of the Lion
^ BlizzCon 2011 - World Of Warcraft: Mists of Pandaria - Lore and Story Panel (Full) (around 47:45). YouTube (2011-10-23). Retrieved on 2019-03-31.
^ 2024-08-21, Chris Metzen on the Worldsoul Saga \| WoWCast. YouTube, retrieved on 2024-09-11
External links

| Anduin Wrynn | Young Alliance Soldier | Generic name |
| --- | --- | --- |
| - Wowhead<br>- WoWDB | - Wowhead<br>- WoWDB | |  |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Wowhead<br>- WoWDB | - Wowhead<br>- WoWDB | |

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Preceded by:<br>Varian Wrynn | Position:<br>High King of the Alliance | Succeeded by:<br>Incumbent |

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Preceded by:<br>Varian Wrynn<br>(as King) | Position:<br>Ruler of Stormwind "Stormwind (kingdom)")<br>(as King under regency<br>of Bolvar Fordragon) | Succeeded by:<br>Varian Wrynn<br>(as King) |

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Preceded by:<br>Varian Wrynn<br>(as King) | Position:<br>Ruler of Stormwind "Stormwind (kingdom)")<br>(as King) | Succeeded by:<br>Incumbent |

| | Collapse<br>Alliance |
| --- |
|  |
| | Expand<br>Leadership |
| --- |
|  |
| High King | - Anduin Wrynn |
|  |
| Lord Commander | - Turalyon |
|  |
| Leaders | - Council of Three Hammers <br>  - Muradin Bronzebeard<br>  - Falstad Wildhammer<br>  - Moira Thaurissan<br>- Gelbin Mekkatorque<br>- Shandris Feathermoon<br>- Velen<br>- Tess Greymane<br>- Aysa Cloudsinger<br>- Alleria Windrunner<br>- Umbric<br>- Fareeya<br>- Jaina Proudmoore<br>- Azurathel | |
|  |
| | Expand<br>Characters |
| --- |
|  |
| Current | - Dagran Thaurissan II<br>- Danath Trollbane<br>- Darius Crowley<br>- Khadgar<br>- Kurdran Wildhammer<br>- Magni Bronzebeard<br>- Tyrande Whisperwind<br>- Malfurion Stormrage<br>- Genn Greymane<br>- Halford Wyrmbane<br>- Catherine Rogers<br>- Gryan Stoutmantle<br>- John J. Keeshan<br>- Mathias Shaw<br>- Tyrathan Khort<br>- Brann Bronzebeard<br>- Grayson Shadowbreaker<br>- Gustaf VanHowzen<br>- Vindicator Boros<br>- Sarah Ladimore<br>- Morgan<br>- Vanndar Stormpike<br>- Jes-Tereth<br>- Lusshan<br>- Nobundo<br>- Vereesa Windrunner<br>- Velog Icebellow<br>- Ivar Bloodfang<br>- Modera<br>- Vargoth<br>- Karlain<br>- Ansirem Runeweaver<br>- Harrison Jones<br>- Maiev Shadowsong<br>- Thassarian<br>- Muninn Magellas<br>- Thargas Anvilmar<br>- Highlord Leoric Von Zeldig<br>- Nevin Twistwrench<br>- Razak Ironsides<br>- Jarod Shadowsong<br>- Ishanah<br>- Amaan the Wise<br>- Broll Bearmantle<br>- Lorna Crowley<br>- Mordent Evenshade<br>- Arechron<br>- Rivern Frostwind<br>- Bizmo<br>- Radulf Leder<br>- Su'ura Swiftarrow<br>- Cordressa Briarbow<br>- Marcus Johnson<br>- Henry Maleb<br>- Jorad Mace<br>- Weldon Barov<br>- Celestine of the Harvest<br>- Julianne Tremblade<br>- Marin Bladewing<br>- Arator Windrunner<br>- T'paartos<br>- Thisalee Crow<br>- Lucille Waycrest<br>- Pike<br>- Taelia Fordragon<br>- Katherine Proudmoore<br>- Brannon Stormsong<br>- Tandred Proudmoore<br>- Erazmin<br>- Arzaal |
|  |
| Former | - Varian Wrynn<br>- Taylor<br>- Twinbraid<br>- Maraad<br>- Fandral Staghelm<br>- Bolvar Fordragon<br>- Benedictus<br>- Marran Trollbane<br>- Marcus Jonathan<br>- Althea Ebonlocke<br>- Iridi<br>- Blademaster Telaamon<br>- Kalecgos |
|  |
| Historical | - Daelin Proudmoore<br>- Anduin Lothar<br>- Antonidas<br>- Terenas Menethil II<br>- Arthas Menethil<br>- Uther the Lightbringer<br>- Alexandros Mograine<br>- Othmar Garithos<br>- Thoras Trollbane<br>- Alonsus Faol<br>- Anasterian Sunstrider<br>- Sylvanas Windrunner<br>- Aiden Perenolde | |
|  |
| | Expand<br>Races |
| --- |
|  |
| Core | - Human<br>- Dwarf<br>- Gnome<br>- Night elf<br>- Draenei<br>- Worgen<br>- Pandaren<br>- Dracthyr |
|  |
| Allied | - Void elf<br>- Lightforged draenei<br>- Dark Iron dwarf<br>- Kul Tiran human<br>- Mechagnome<br>- Earthen<br>- Haranir |
|  |
| Other | - Ancient<br>- Cenarion<br>- Dwarf <br>  - Wildhammer<br>  - Frost<br>- Eredar <br>  - Broken<br>  - Man'ari eredar<br>- Faerie dragon<br>- Furbolg<br>- Half-elf<br>- Highborne<br>- High elf<br>- Jinyu <br>  - Ankoan<br>- Darkfallen |
|  |
| Animals | - Horse<br>- Gryphon<br>- Ram<br>- Hippogryph<br>- Saber cat<br>- Elekk<br>- Talbuk<br>- Dragon turtle<br>- Hawkstrider<br>- Dragonhawk<br>- Unicorn<br>- Core hound<br>- Bear<br>- Giant eagle<br>- Vorquin | |
|  |
| | Expand<br>Cities and towns |
| --- |
|  |
| Capital cities | - Stormwind City<br>- Ironforge<br>- Bel'ameth<br>- Gnomeregan<br>- The Exodar<br>- Gilneas City<br>- Telogrus Rift<br>- The Vindicaar<br>- Shadowforge City<br>- Boralus<br>- Mechagon City |
|  |
| Eastern Kingdoms | - Aerie Peak<br>- Chillwind Camp<br>- Darkshire<br>- Dragon's Mouth<br>- Dun Modr<br>- Eastvale Logging Camp<br>- Farstrider Lodge<br>- Fort Livingston<br>- Goldshire<br>- Greenwarden's Grove<br>- Harborage<br>- Highbank<br>- Kharanos<br>- Kirthaven<br>- Lakeshire<br>- Marshtide Watch<br>- Menethil Harbor<br>- Moonbrook<br>- Morgan's Vigil<br>- New Tinkertown<br>- Quel'Danil Lodge<br>- Refuge Pointe<br>- Sentinel Hill<br>- Southshore<br>- Stromgarde Keep<br>- Surwich<br>- Thelsamar<br>- Victor's Point |
|  |
| Kalimdor | - Astranaar<br>- Azure Watch<br>- Blood Watch<br>- Farwatcher's Glen<br>- Feathermoon Stronghold<br>- Forest Song<br>- Fort Triumph<br>- Honor's Stand<br>- Northwatch Hold<br>- Talonbranch Glade<br>- Thal'darah Overlook |
|  |
| Outland | - Allerian Stronghold<br>- Honor Hold<br>- Orebor Harborage<br>- Sylvanaar<br>- Telaar<br>- Toshley's Station<br>- Temple of Telhamat<br>- Wildhammer Stronghold |
|  |
| Northrend | - Amberpine Lodge<br>- Fizzcrank Airstrip<br>- Fordragon Hold<br>- Fort Wildervar<br>- Frosthold<br>- Valgarde<br>- Valiance Keep<br>- Westfall Brigade Encampment<br>- Westguard Keep<br>- Wintergarde Keep |
|  |
| Pandaria | - Incursion<br>- Lion's Landing<br>- Paw'don Village<br>- Pearlfin Village<br>- Shrine of Seven Stars<br>- Westwind Rest |
|  |
| Draenor "Draenor (alternate universe)") | - Fort Wrynn<br>- Highpass<br>- Lion's Watch<br>- Lunarfall<br>- Southport<br>- Stormshield<br>- Telaari Station |
|  |
| Broken Isles | - Greywatch |
|  |
| Kul Tiras | - Anglepoint Wharf<br>- Arom's Stand<br>- Brennadam<br>- Bridgeport<br>- Deadwash<br>- Falconhurst<br>- Fallhaven<br>- Fletcher's Hollow<br>- Fort Daelin<br>- Hatherford<br>- Millstone Hamlet<br>- Norwington Estate<br>- Sagehold |
|  |
| Zandalar | - Fort Victory<br>- Shatterstone Harbor |
|  |
| Dragon Isles | - Amirdrassil |
|  |
| Former | - Admiral Taylor's Garrison<br>- Bashal'Aran<br>- Darnassus<br>- Firebeard's Patrol<br>- Fort Triumph<br>- Hillsbrad Fields<br>- Kirin'Var Village<br>- Lor'danel<br>- Nethergarde Keep<br>- Stonewatch<br>- Theramore Isle |
|  |
| Territories | - Azuremyst Isles <br>  - Azuremyst Isle<br>  - Bloodmyst Isle<br>- Dun Morogh<br>- Duskwood<br>- Elwynn Forest<br>- Gilneas<br>- Loch Modan<br>- Redridge Mountains<br>- Wetlands<br>- Westfall | |
|  |
| | Expand<br>Organizations |
| --- |
|  |
| Alliance forces | - Alliance High Command<br>- Alliance army<br>- Alliance navy <br>  - Alliance Naval Command<br>  - Third Fleet<br>  - North Fleet<br>- Alliance air force<br>- Alliance Vanguard <br>  - Valiance Expedition<br>- Alliance Forces "Alliance Forces (Warcraft III)")<br>- 7th Legion <br>  - 7th Fleet<br>- Operation: Shieldwall<br>- Wrynn's Vanguard |
|  |
| Kingdom of Stormwind "Stormwind (kingdom)") | - Court of Stormwind<br>- House of Nobles<br>- SI:7<br>- Stormwind Fleet<br>- Stormwind Army <br>  - Stormwind Guard<br>  - Stormwind City Guard <br>    - Stormwind Harbor Guards<br>  - Stormwind Royal Guard<br>  - Stormwind Elite Aquatic and Land Forces<br>  - Westfall Brigade<br>  - Bravo Company<br>- Stormwind Assassin's Guild<br>- Night Watch<br>- Nijel's Point Guard<br>- Breadbasket Guild |
|  |
| Kingdom of Ironforge "Ironforge (kingdom)") | - Senate of Ironforge<br>- Wildhammer clan<br>- Dark Iron clan <br>  - Forgeguard<br>  - Dark Iron Demolishers<br>  - Shadowforge clan<br>- Bronzebeard clan<br>- Stormpike clan <br>  - Stormpike Guard<br>- Explorers' League <br>  - Bael'dun<br>- Ironforge Guard<br>- Ironforge 127th Paratroopers<br>- Ironforge Siege Brigade<br>- Ironforge Brigade<br>- Miners' League<br>- Royal Stonecutters Union<br>- Hidden Circle |
|  |
| Nation of Darnassus "Darnassus (nation)") | - Darnassian Army <br>  - Sentinels <br>    - Silverwing Sentinels<br>    - Sentinel spies<br>  - Kaldorei Fleet<br>  - Army of the Black Moon<br>  - Darnassian City Guard<br>- Sisterhood of Elune<br>- Wintersaber Trainers<br>- Watchers<br>- Auberdine Village Council<br>- Council of the Forest<br>- Circle of Ancients |
|  |
| Kingdom of Gnomeregan "Gnomeregan (kingdom)") | - Gnomeregan Army <br>  - A.C.E.<br>  - G.E.A.R.<br>  - S.A.F.E.<br>  - Gnomeregan Airmen<br>- Gnomeregan Covert Ops<br>- Razak's Roughriders |
|  |
| Exodar draenei "Exodar (nation)") | - Hand of Argus <br>  - Triumvirate of the Hand<br>  - Defenders of Blood Watch<br>- Auchenai<br>- Rangari<br>- Artificers<br>- Order of Light<br>- Omenai<br>- Light's Chosen<br>- Augari<br>- Penitents |
|  |
| Kingdom of Gilneas "Gilneas (kingdom)") | - Gilnean military <br>  - Gilnean navy<br>  - Gilnean Royal Guard<br>  - Gilneas Liberation Front <br>    - Refugee Leadership<br>  - Gilneas Brigade<br>- Bloodfang Pack<br>- Wolfpack |
|  |
| Admiralty of Kul Tiras "Kul Tiras (kingdom)") | - Kul Tiran fleet<br>- House Proudmoore <br>  - Proudmoore Admiralty<br>  - Proudmoore Battalion<br>  - Admiral's Elite Guard<br>  - Proudmoore Guard<br>- House Waycrest <br>  - Waycrest Guard<br>  - Order of Embers<br>- Norwington<br>- Roughnecks<br>- House Stormsong <br>  - Tidesages<br>- Boralus Guard<br>- Outriggers<br>- Storm's Wake <br>  - Tideguard |
|  |
| Kingdom of Stromgarde "Stromgarde (kingdom)") | - Stromic army <br>  - League of Arathor<br>  - Stromgarde Militia<br>  - Stromgarde Brigade |
|  |
| Other members | - Tushui Pandaren<br>- Army of the Light <br>  - Lightveil<br>- The Ren'dorei "Ren'dorei (organization)") <br>  - Riftrunners<br>  - Riftwalkers<br>  - Riftwardens<br>- Obsidian Warders<br>- Alliance Trauma<br>- Church of the Holy Light <br>  - Brotherhood of Northshire<br>  - Knights of the Silver Hand<br>- Morgan's Militia<br>- Highvale<br>- Northwatch Expeditionary Unit<br>- Sons of Lothar <br>  - Honor Hold<br>- Kurenai<br>- Frostborn<br>- Valiance Expedition <br>  - Unit S<br>  - Unit Darkshire<br>  - Unit Goldshire<br>- Silver Covenant<br>- Kirin Tor Offensive<br>- Shen'dralar Highborne<br>- Tol Barad <br>  - Baradin's Wardens<br>- Pearlfin Jinyu<br>- Bizmo's Brawlpub<br>- Nethergarde<br>- Light's Vengeance "Light's Vengeance (island expedition)")<br>- Auric's Angels<br>- Briona's Buccaneers<br>- Purified<br>- Waveblade Ankoan<br>- Grumbol's Hammers |
|  |
| Former members | - Magocracy of Dalaran "Dalaran (kingdom)") <br>  - Kirin Tor<br>- Theramore "Theramore (nation)") <br>  - Theramore Guard <br>    - Elite Guard<br>- Kingdom of Lordaeron "Lordaeron (kingdom)") <br>  - Lordaeron army<br>  - Lordaeron Navy<br>  - 1st Legion<br>- Kingdom of Quel'Thalas "Quel'Thalas (kingdom)") <br>  - Thalassian navy<br>- Kingdom of Alterac "Alterac (kingdom)") |
|  |
| Alliance-aligned and allies | - Council of Exarchs "Council of Exarchs (alternate universe)") <br>  - Hand of the Prophet<br>  - Artificers "Artificers (alternate universe)")<br>  - Auchenai "Auchenai (alternate universe)")<br>  - Rangari "Rangari (alternate universe)")<br>  - Vindicators "Vindicators (alternate universe)")<br>  - Sha'tari Defense<br>- Stillpine tribe |
|  |
| Former allies | - Blackmaw tribe<br>- Blackwood tribe<br>- Grimtotem tribe<br>- Scarlet renegades | |
|  |
| - Common "Common (language)")<br>- Alliance organizations<br>- Alliance technology<br>- Alliance territories | |

Retrieved from " https://warcraft.wiki.gg/wiki/Anduin\_Wrynn?oldid=6796975"

Categories:

Alliance characters
Articles to clean up
Statements needing citations
Speculation
Human characters
Priest characters
Aristocrats
Stormwind (kingdom) "Category:Stormwind (kingdom)")
Alliance
Vanguard of the Light
Quest givers
Stormwind City NPCs
Jade Forest NPCs
Krasarang Wilds NPCs
Veiled Stair NPCs
Kun-Lai Summit NPCs
Vale of Eternal Blossoms NPCs
Shrine of Seven Stars NPCs
Timeless Isle NPCs
World of Warcraft: The Comic characters
Stormrage characters
The Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm characters
Wolfheart characters
Leaders of Azeroth characters
Jaina Proudmoore: Tides of War characters
Siege of Orgrimmar NPCs
War Crimes characters
Unique voices
Unique models
Children
Hearthstone heroes
Destination: Pandaria characters
City bosses
Broken Shore NPCs
Before the Storm characters
A Good War characters
Battle for Lordaeron
Stormwind Extraction
Boralus NPCs
Battle of Dazar'alor NPCs
Durotar NPCs
Escape from the Maw NPCs
Torghast, Tower of the Damned NPCs
Sanctum of Domination NPCs
Sepulcher of the First Ones NPCs
Zereth Mortis NPCs
Bastion NPCs
Oribos NPCs
Heroes of the Storm characters
Shadows Rising characters
Terror by Torchlight characters
World of Warcraft: Sylvanas characters
The Calling
Silithus: The Wound NPCs
Dalaran NPCs
Isle of Dorn NPCs
Dornogal NPCs
Ringing Deeps NPCs
Hallowfall NPCs
Azj-Kahet NPCs
City of Threads NPCs
A Light in the Dark")
Faith & Flame characters
Blood Ties characters
Isle of Quel'Danas NPCs
Silvermoon City NPCs
Pages with stay a while and listen dialogue

Hidden categories:

Pages using deprecated location templates
Ability id param empty

Cookies help us deliver our services. By using our services, you agree to our use of cookies.

More informationOK